ISABELLA : I have no tongue but one : gentle my lord , Let me entreat you speak the former language .
ANGELO : Plainly conceive , I love you .
ISABELLA : My brother did love Juliet , And you tell me that he shall die for it .
ANGELO : He shall not , Isabel , if you give me love .
ISABELLA : I know your virtue hath a licence in 't , Which seems a little fouler than it is , To pluck on others .
ANGELO : Believe me , on mine honour , My words express my purpose .
ISABELLA : Ha ! little honour to be much believed , And most pernicious purpose ! Seeming , seeming ! I will proclaim thee , Angelo ; look for 't : Sign me a present pardon for my brother , Or with an outstretch 'd throat I 'll tell the world aloud What man thou art .
ANGELO : Who will believe thee , Isabel ? My unsoil 'd name , the austereness of my life , My vouch against you , and my place i ' the state , Will so your accusation overweigh , That you shall stifle in your own report And smell of calumny . I have begun , And now I give my sensual race the rein : Fit thy consent to my sharp appetite ; Lay by all nicety and prolixious blushes , That banish what they sue for ; redeem thy brother By yielding up thy body to my will ; Or else he must not only die the death , But thy unkindness shall his death draw out To lingering sufferance . Answer me to-morrow , Or , by the affection that now guides me most , I 'll prove a tyrant to him . As for you , Say what you can , my false o 'erweighs your true . Exit
ISABELLA : To whom should I complain ? Did I tell this , Who would believe me ? O perilous mouths , That bear in them one and the self-same tongue , Either of condemnation or approof ; Bidding the law make court 'sy to their will : Hooking both right and wrong to the appetite , To follow as it draws ! I 'll to my brother : Though he hath fallen by prompture of the blood , Yet hath he in him such a mind of honour . That , had he twenty heads to tender down On twenty bloody blocks , he 'ld yield them up , Before his sister should her body stoop To such abhorr 'd pollution . Then , Isabel , live chaste , and , brother , die : More than our brother is our chastity . I 'll tell him yet of Angelo 's request , And fit his mind to death , for his soul 's rest . Exit Enter DUKE VINCENTIO disguised as before , CLAUDIO , and Provost
DUKE VINCENTIO : So then you hope of pardon from Lord Angelo ?
CLAUDIO : The miserable have no other medicine But only hope : I 've hope to live , and am prepared to die .
