LUCIO : Our doubts are traitors And make us lose the good we oft might win By fearing to attempt . Go to Lord Angelo , And let him learn to know , when maidens sue , Men give like gods ; but when they weep and kneel , All their petitions are as freely theirs As they themselves would owe them .
ISABELLA : I 'll see what I can do .
LUCIO : But speedily .
ISABELLA : I will about it straight ; No longer staying but to give the mother Notice of my affair . I humbly thank you : Commend me to my brother : soon at night I 'll send him certain word of my success .
LUCIO : I take my leave of you .
ISABELLA : Good sir , adieu . Enter ANGELO , ESCALUS , and a Justice , Provost , Officers , and other Attendants , behind
ANGELO : We must not make a scarecrow of the law , Setting it up to fear the birds of prey , And let it keep one shape , till custom make it Their perch and not their terror .
ESCALUS : Ay , but yet Let us be keen , and rather cut a little , Than fall , and bruise to death . Alas , this gentleman Whom I would save , had a most noble father ! Let but your honour know , Whom I believe to be most strait in virtue , That , in the working of your own affections , Had time cohered with place or place with wishing , Or that the resolute acting of your blood Could have attain 'd the effect of your own purpose , Whether you had not sometime in your life Err 'd in this point which now you censure him , And pull 'd the law upon you .
ANGELO : ' Tis one thing to be tempted , Escalus , Another thing to fall . I not deny , The jury , passing on the prisoner 's life , May in the sworn twelve have a thief or two Guiltier than him they try . What 's open made to justice , That justice seizes : what know the laws That thieves do pass on thieves ? ' Tis very pregnant , The jewel that we find , we stoop and take 't Because we see it ; but what we do not see We tread upon , and never think of it . You may not so extenuate his offence For I have had such faults ; but rather tell me , When I , that censure him , do so offend , Let mine own judgment pattern out my death , And nothing come in partial . Sir , he must die .
ESCALUS : Be it as your wisdom will .
ANGELO : Where is the provost ?
Provost : Here , if it like your honour .
ANGELO : See that Claudio Be executed by nine to-morrow morning : Bring him his confessor , let him be prepared ; For that 's the utmost of his pilgrimage . Exit Provost
ESCALUS : Well , heaven forgive him ! and forgive us all ! Some rise by sin , and some by virtue fall : Some run from brakes of ice , and answer none : And some condemned for a fault alone . Enter ELBOW , and Officers with FROTH and POMPEY
ELBOW : Come , bring them away : if these be good people in a commonweal that do nothing but use their abuses in common houses , I know no law : bring them away .
ANGELO : How now , sir ! What 's your name ? and what 's the matter ?
ELBOW : If it Please your honour , I am the poor duke 's constable , and my name is Elbow : I do lean upon justice , sir , and do bring in here before your good honour two notorious benefactors .
ANGELO : Benefactors ? Well ; what benefactors are they ? are they not malefactors ?
ELBOW : If it ? please your honour , I know not well what they are : but precise villains they are , that I am sure of ; and void of all profanation in the world that good Christians ought to have .
ESCALUS : This comes off well ; here 's a wise officer .
