ESCALUS : One that , above all other strifes , contended especially to know himself .
DUKE VINCENTIO : What pleasure was he given to ?
ESCALUS : Rather rejoicing to see another merry , than merry at any thing which professed to make him rejoice : a gentleman of all temperance . But leave we him to his events , with a prayer they may prove prosperous ; and let me desire to know how you find Claudio prepared . I am made to understand that you have lent him visitation .
DUKE VINCENTIO : He professes to have received no sinister measure from his judge , but most willingly humbles himself to the determination of justice : yet had he framed to himself , by the instruction of his frailty , many deceiving promises of life ; which I by my good leisure have discredited to him , and now is he resolved to die .
ESCALUS : You have paid the heavens your function , and the prisoner the very debt of your calling . I have laboured for the poor gentleman to the extremest shore of my modesty : but my brother justice have I found so severe , that he hath forced me to tell him he is indeed Justice .
DUKE VINCENTIO : If his own life answer the straitness of his proceeding , it shall become him well ; wherein if he chance to fail , he hath sentenced himself .
ESCALUS : I am going to visit the prisoner . Fare you well .
DUKE VINCENTIO : Peace be with you ! He who the sword of heaven will bear Should be as holy as severe ; Pattern in himself to know , Grace to stand , and virtue go ; More nor less to others paying Than by self-offences weighing . Shame to him whose cruel striking Kills for faults of his own liking ! Twice treble shame on Angelo , To weed my vice and let his grow ! O , what may man within him hide , Though angel on the outward side ! How may likeness made in crimes , Making practise on the times , To draw with idle spiders ' strings Most ponderous and substantial things ! Craft against vice I must apply : With Angelo to-night shall lie His old betrothed but despised ; So disguise shall , by the disguised , Pay with falsehood false exacting , And perform an old contracting . Exit Enter MARIANA and a Boy Boy sings Take , O , take those lips away , That so sweetly were forsworn ; And those eyes , the break of day , Lights that do mislead the morn : But my kisses bring again , bring again ; Seals of love , but sealed in vain , sealed in vain .
MARIANA : Break off thy song , and haste thee quick away : Here comes a man of comfort , whose advice Hath often still 'd my brawling discontent . Exit Boy Enter DUKE VINCENTIO disguised as before I cry you mercy , sir ; and well could wish You had not found me here so musical : Let me excuse me , and believe me so , My mirth it much displeased , but pleased my woe .
DUKE VINCENTIO : ' Tis good ; though music oft hath such a charm To make bad good , and good provoke to harm . I pray , you , tell me , hath any body inquired for me here to-day ? much upon this time have I promised here to meet .
MARIANA : You have not been inquired after : I have sat here all day . Enter ISABELLA
DUKE VINCENTIO : I do constantly believe you . The time is come even now . I shall crave your forbearance a little : may be I will call upon you anon , for some advantage to yourself .
MARIANA : I am always bound to you . Exit
DUKE VINCENTIO : Very well met , and well come . What is the news from this good deputy ?
