POMPEY : He cannot , sir ; he 's out at elbow .
ANGELO : What are you , sir ?
ELBOW : He , sir ! a tapster , sir ; parcel-bawd ; one that serves a bad woman ; whose house , sir , was , as they say , plucked down in the suburbs ; and now she professes a hot-house , which , I think , is a very ill house too .
ESCALUS : How know you that ?
ELBOW : My wife , sir , whom I detest before heaven and your honour , --
ESCALUS : How ? thy wife ?
ELBOW : Ay , sir ; whom , I thank heaven , is an honest woman , --
ESCALUS : Dost thou detest her therefore ?
ELBOW : I say , sir , I will detest myself also , as well as she , that this house , if it be not a bawd 's house , it is pity of her life , for it is a naughty house .
ESCALUS : How dost thou know that , constable ?
ELBOW : Marry , sir , by my wife ; who , if she had been a woman cardinally given , might have been accused in fornication , adultery , and all uncleanliness there .
ESCALUS : By the woman 's means ?
ELBOW : Ay , sir , by Mistress Overdone 's means : but as she spit in his face , so she defied him .
POMPEY : Sir , if it please your honour , this is not so .
ELBOW : Prove it before these varlets here , thou honourable man ; prove it .
ESCALUS : Do you hear how he misplaces ?
POMPEY : Sir , she came in great with child ; and longing , saving your honour 's reverence , for stewed prunes ; sir , we had but two in the house , which at that very distant time stood , as it were , in a fruit-dish , a dish of some three-pence ; your honours have seen such dishes ; they are not China dishes , but very good dishes , --
ESCALUS : Go to , go to : no matter for the dish , sir .
POMPEY : No , indeed , sir , not of a pin ; you are therein in the right : but to the point . As I say , this Mistress Elbow , being , as I say , with child , and being great-bellied , and longing , as I said , for prunes ; and having but two in the dish , as I said , Master Froth here , this very man , having eaten the rest , as I said , and , as I say , paying for them very honestly ; for , as you know , Master Froth , I could not give you three-pence again .
FROTH : No , indeed .
POMPEY : Very well : you being then , if you be remembered , cracking the stones of the foresaid prunes , --
FROTH : Ay , so I did indeed .
POMPEY : Why , very well ; I telling you then , if you be remembered , that such a one and such a one were past cure of the thing you wot of , unless they kept very good diet , as I told you , --
FROTH : All this is true .
POMPEY : Why , very well , then , --
ESCALUS : Come , you are a tedious fool : to the purpose . What was done to Elbow 's wife , that he hath cause to complain of ? Come me to what was done to her .
POMPEY : Sir , your honour cannot come to that yet .
ESCALUS : No , sir , nor I mean it not .
POMPEY : Sir , but you shall come to it , by your honour 's leave . And , I beseech you , look into Master Froth here , sir ; a man of four-score pound a year ; whose father died at Hallowmas : was 't not at Hallowmas , Master Froth ?
FROTH : All-hallond eve .
