DUKE VINCENTIO : So then it seems your most offenceful act Was mutually committed ?
JULIET : Mutually .
DUKE VINCENTIO : Then was your sin of heavier kind than his .
JULIET : I do confess it , and repent it , father .
DUKE VINCENTIO : ' Tis meet so , daughter : but lest you do repent , As that the sin hath brought you to this shame , Which sorrow is always towards ourselves , not heaven , Showing we would not spare heaven as we love it , But as we stand in fear , --
JULIET : I do repent me , as it is an evil , And take the shame with joy .
DUKE VINCENTIO : There rest . Your partner , as I hear , must die to-morrow , And I am going with instruction to him . Grace go with you , Benedicite ! Exit
JULIET : Must die to-morrow ! O injurious love , That respites me a life , whose very comfort Is still a dying horror !
Provost : ' Tis pity of him . Enter ANGELO
ANGELO : When I would pray and think , I think and pray To several subjects . Heaven hath my empty words ; Whilst my invention , hearing not my tongue , Anchors on Isabel : Heaven in my mouth , As if I did but only chew his name ; And in my heart the strong and swelling evil Of my conception . The state , whereon I studied Is like a good thing , being often read , Grown fear 'd and tedious ; yea , my gravity , Wherein--let no man hear me--I take pride , Could I with boot change for an idle plume , Which the air beats for vain . O place , O form , How often dost thou with thy case , thy habit , Wrench awe from fools and tie the wiser souls To thy false seeming ! Blood , thou art blood : Let 's write good angel on the devil 's horn : ' Tis not the devil 's crest . Enter a Servant How now ! who 's there ?
Servant : One Isabel , a sister , desires access to you .
ANGELO : Teach her the way . Exit Servant O heavens ! Why does my blood thus muster to my heart , Making both it unable for itself , And dispossessing all my other parts Of necessary fitness ? So play the foolish throngs with one that swoons ; Come all to help him , and so stop the air By which he should revive : and even so The general , subject to a well-wish 'd king , Quit their own part , and in obsequious fondness Crowd to his presence , where their untaught love Must needs appear offence . Enter ISABELLA How now , fair maid ?
ISABELLA : I am come to know your pleasure .
ANGELO : That you might know it , would much better please me Than to demand what ' tis . Your brother cannot live .
ISABELLA : Even so . Heaven keep your honour !
ANGELO : Yet may he live awhile ; and , it may be ,
As long as you or I : yet he must die .
ISABELLA : Under your sentence ?
ANGELO : Yea .
ISABELLA : When , I beseech you ? that in his reprieve , Longer or shorter , he may be so fitted That his soul sicken not .
ANGELO : Ha ! fie , these filthy vices ! It were as good To pardon him that hath from nature stolen A man already made , as to remit Their saucy sweetness that do coin heaven 's image In stamps that are forbid : ' tis all as easy Falsely to take away a life true made As to put metal in restrained means To make a false one .
ISABELLA : ' Tis set down so in heaven , but not in earth .
ANGELO : Say you so ? then I shall pose you quickly . Which had you rather , that the most just law Now took your brother 's life ; or , to redeem him , Give up your body to such sweet uncleanness As she that he hath stain 'd ?
ISABELLA : Sir , believe this , I had rather give my body than my soul .
