ISABELLA : Unhappy Claudio ! wretched Isabel ! Injurious world ! most damned Angelo !
DUKE VINCENTIO : This nor hurts him nor profits you a jot ; Forbear it therefore ; give your cause to heaven . Mark what I say , which you shall find By every syllable a faithful verity : The duke comes home to-morrow ; nay , dry your eyes ; One of our convent , and his confessor , Gives me this instance : already he hath carried Notice to Escalus and Angelo , Who do prepare to meet him at the gates , There to give up their power . If you can , pace your wisdom In that good path that I would wish it go , And you shall have your bosom on this wretch , Grace of the duke , revenges to your heart , And general honour .
ISABELLA : I am directed by you .
DUKE VINCENTIO : This letter , then , to Friar Peter give ; ' Tis that he sent me of the duke 's return : Say , by this token , I desire his company At Mariana 's house to-night . Her cause and yours I 'll perfect him withal , and he shall bring you Before the duke , and to the head of Angelo Accuse him home and home . For my poor self , I am combined by a sacred vow And shall be absent . Wend you with this letter : Command these fretting waters from your eyes With a light heart ; trust not my holy order , If I pervert your course . Who 's here ? Enter LUCIO
LUCIO : Good even . Friar , where 's the provost ?
DUKE VINCENTIO : Not within , sir .
LUCIO : O pretty Isabella , I am pale at mine heart to see thine eyes so red : thou must be patient . I am fain to dine and sup with water and bran ; I dare not for my head fill my belly ; one fruitful meal would set me to ' t . But they say the duke will be here to-morrow . By my troth , Isabel , I loved thy brother : if the old fantastical duke of dark corners had been at home , he had lived . Exit ISABELLA
DUKE VINCENTIO : Sir , the duke is marvellous little beholding to your reports ; but the best is , he lives not in them .
LUCIO : Friar , thou knowest not the duke so well as I do : he 's a better woodman than thou takest him for .
DUKE VINCENTIO : Well , you 'll answer this one day . Fare ye well .
LUCIO : Nay , tarry ; I 'll go along with thee I can tell thee pretty tales of the duke .
DUKE VINCENTIO : You have told me too many of him already , sir , if they be true ; if not true , none were enough .
LUCIO : I was once before him for getting a wench with child .
DUKE VINCENTIO : Did you such a thing ?
LUCIO : Yes , marry , did I but I was fain to forswear it ; they would else have married me to the rotten medlar .
DUKE VINCENTIO : Sir , your company is fairer than honest . Rest you well .
LUCIO : By my troth , I 'll go with thee to the lane 's end : if bawdy talk offend you , we 'll have very little of it . Nay , friar , I am a kind of burr ; I shall stick . Enter ANGELO and ESCALUS
ESCALUS : Every letter he hath writ hath disvouched other .
ANGELO : In most uneven and distracted manner . His actions show much like to madness : pray heaven his wisdom be not tainted ! And why meet him at the gates , and redeliver our authorities there
ESCALUS : I guess not .
ANGELO : And why should we proclaim it in an hour before his entering , that if any crave redress of injustice , they should exhibit their petitions in the street ?
ESCALUS : He shows his reason for that : to have a dispatch of complaints , and to deliver us from devices hereafter , which shall then have no power to stand against us .
