Servant : He 's hearing of a cause ; he will come straight I 'll tell him of you .
Provost : Pray you , do . Exit Servant I 'll know His pleasure ; may be he will relent . Alas , He hath but as offended in a dream ! All sects , all ages smack of this vice ; and he To die for 't ! Enter ANGELO
ANGELO : Now , what 's the matter . Provost ?
Provost : Is it your will Claudio shall die tomorrow ?
ANGELO : Did not I tell thee yea ? hadst thou not order ? Why dost thou ask again ?
Provost : Lest I might be too rash : Under your good correction , I have seen , When , after execution , judgment hath Repented o 'er his doom .
ANGELO : Go to ; let that be mine : Do you your office , or give up your place , And you shall well be spared .
Provost : I crave your honour 's pardon . What shall be done , sir , with the groaning Juliet ? She 's very near her hour .
ANGELO : Dispose of her To some more fitter place , and that with speed . Re-enter Servant
Servant : Here is the sister of the man condemn 'd Desires access to you .
ANGELO : Hath he a sister ?
Provost : Ay , my good lord ; a very virtuous maid , And to be shortly of a sisterhood , If not already .
ANGELO : Well , let her be admitted . Exit Servant See you the fornicatress be removed : Let have needful , but not lavish , means ; There shall be order for 't . Enter ISABELLA and LUCIO
Provost : God save your honour !
ANGELO : Stay a little while . To ISABELLA You 're welcome : what 's your will ?
ISABELLA : I am a woeful suitor to your honour , Please but your honour hear me .
ANGELO : Well ; what 's your suit ?
ISABELLA : There is a vice that most I do abhor , And most desire should meet the blow of justice ; For which I would not plead , but that I must ; For which I must not plead , but that I am At war ' twixt will and will not .
ANGELO : Well ; the matter ?
ISABELLA : I have a brother is condemn 'd to die : I do beseech you , let it be his fault , And not my brother .
Provost : Heaven give thee moving graces !
ANGELO : Condemn the fault and not the actor of it ? Why , every fault 's condemn 'd ere it be done : Mine were the very cipher of a function , To fine the faults whose fine stands in record , And let go by the actor .
ISABELLA : O just but severe law ! I had a brother , then . Heaven keep your honour !
LUCIO : Give 't not o 'er so : to him again , entreat him ; Kneel down before him , hang upon his gown : You are too cold ; if you should need a pin , You could not with more tame a tongue desire it : To him , I say !
ISABELLA : Must he needs die ?
ANGELO : Maiden , no remedy .
ISABELLA : Yes ; I do think that you might pardon him , And neither heaven nor man grieve at the mercy .
ANGELO : I will not do 't .
ISABELLA : But can you , if you would ?
ANGELO : Look , what I will not , that I cannot do .
ISABELLA : But might you do 't , and do the world no wrong , If so your heart were touch 'd with that remorse A s mine is to him ?
ANGELO : He 's sentenced ; ' tis too late .
LUCIO : You are too cold .
