DUKE VINCENTIO : This is most likely !
ISABELLA : O , that it were as like as it is true !
DUKE VINCENTIO : By heaven , fond wretch , thou knowist not what thou speak 'st , Or else thou art suborn 'd against his honour In hateful practise . First , his integrity Stands without blemish . Next , it imports no reason That with such vehemency he should pursue Faults proper to himself : if he had so offended , He would have weigh 'd thy brother by himself And not have cut him off . Some one hath set you on : Confess the truth , and say by whose advice Thou camest here to complain .
ISABELLA : And is this all ? Then , O you blessed ministers above , Keep me in patience , and with ripen 'd time Unfold the evil which is here wrapt up In countenance ! Heaven shield your grace from woe , As I , thus wrong 'd , hence unbelieved go !
DUKE VINCENTIO : I know you 'ld fain be gone . An officer ! To prison with her ! Shall we thus permit A blasting and a scandalous breath to fall On him so near us ? This needs must be a practise . Who knew of Your intent and coming hither ?
ISABELLA : One that I would were here , Friar Lodowick .
DUKE VINCENTIO : A ghostly father , belike . Who knows that Lodowick ?
LUCIO : My lord , I know him ; ' tis a meddling friar ; I do not like the man : had he been lay , my lord For certain words he spake against your grace In your retirement , I had swinged him soundly .
DUKE VINCENTIO : Words against me ? this is a good friar , belike ! And to set on this wretched woman here Against our substitute ! Let this friar be found .
LUCIO : But yesternight , my lord , she and that friar , I saw them at the prison : a saucy friar , A very scurvy fellow .
FRIAR PETER : Blessed be your royal grace ! I have stood by , my lord , and I have heard Your royal ear abused . First , hath this woman Most wrongfully accused your substitute , Who is as free from touch or soil with her As she from one ungot .
DUKE VINCENTIO : We did believe no less . Know you that Friar Lodowick that she speaks of ?
FRIAR PETER : I know him for a man divine and holy ; Not scurvy , nor a temporary meddler , As he 's reported by this gentleman ; And , on my trust , a man that never yet Did , as he vouches , misreport your grace .
LUCIO : My lord , most villanously ; believe it .
FRIAR PETER : Well , he in time may come to clear himself ; But at this instant he is sick my lord , Of a strange fever . Upon his mere request , Being come to knowledge that there was complaint Intended ' gainst Lord Angelo , came I hither , To speak , as from his mouth , what he doth know Is true and false ; and what he with his oath And all probation will make up full clear , Whensoever he 's convented . First , for this woman . To justify this worthy nobleman , So vulgarly and personally accused , Her shall you hear disproved to her eyes , Till she herself confess it .
DUKE VINCENTIO : Good friar , let 's hear it . ISABELLA is carried off guarded ; and MARIANA comes forward Do you not smile at this , Lord Angelo ? O heaven , the vanity of wretched fools ! Give us some seats . Come , cousin Angelo ; In this I 'll be impartial ; be you judge Of your own cause . Is this the witness , friar ? First , let her show her face , and after speak .
MARIANA : Pardon , my lord ; I will not show my face Until my husband bid me .
DUKE VINCENTIO : What , are you married ?
MARIANA : No , my lord .
DUKE VINCENTIO : Are you a maid ?
MARIANA : No , my lord .
DUKE VINCENTIO : A widow , then ?
MARIANA : Neither , my lord .
