LUCIO : My lord , she may be a punk ; for many of them are neither maid , widow , nor wife .
DUKE VINCENTIO : Silence that fellow : I would he had some cause To prattle for himself .
LUCIO : Well , my lord .
MARIANA : My lord ; I do confess I ne 'er was married ; And I confess besides I am no maid : I have known my husband ; yet my husband Knows not that ever he knew me .
LUCIO : He was drunk then , my lord : it can be no better .
DUKE VINCENTIO : For the benefit of silence , would thou wert so too !
LUCIO : Well , my lord .
DUKE VINCENTIO : This is no witness for Lord Angelo .
MARIANA : Now I come to 't my lord She that accuses him of fornication , In self-same manner doth accuse my husband , And charges him my lord , with such a time When I 'll depose I had him in mine arms With all the effect of love .
ANGELO : Charges she more than me ?
MARIANA : Not that I know .
DUKE VINCENTIO : No ? you say your husband .
MARIANA : Why , just , my lord , and that is Angelo , Who thinks he knows that he ne 'er knew my body , But knows he thinks that he knows Isabel 's .
ANGELO : This is a strange abuse . Let 's see thy face .
MARIANA : My husband bids me ; now I will unmask . Unveiling This is that face , thou cruel Angelo , Which once thou sworest was worth the looking on ; This is the hand which , with a vow 'd contract , Was fast belock 'd in thine ; this is the body That took away the match from Isabel , And did supply thee at thy garden-house In her imagined person .
DUKE VINCENTIO : Know you this woman ?
LUCIO : Carnally , she says .
DUKE VINCENTIO : Sirrah , no more !
LUCIO : Enough , my lord .
ANGELO : My lord , I must confess I know this woman : And five years since there was some speech of marriage Betwixt myself and her ; which was broke off , Partly for that her promised proportions Came short of composition , but in chief For that her reputation was disvalued In levity : since which time of five years I never spake with her , saw her , nor heard from her , Upon my faith and honour .
MARIANA : Noble prince , As there comes light from heaven and words from breath , As there is sense in truth and truth in virtue , I am affianced this man 's wife as strongly As words could make up vows : and , my good lord , But Tuesday night last gone in 's garden-house He knew me as a wife . As this is true , Let me in safety raise me from my knees Or else for ever be confixed here , A marble monument !
ANGELO : I did but smile till now : Now , good my lord , give me the scope of justice My patience here is touch 'd . I do perceive These poor informal women are no more But instruments of some more mightier member That sets them on : let me have way , my lord , To find this practise out .
DUKE VINCENTIO : Ay , with my heart And punish them to your height of pleasure . Thou foolish friar , and thou pernicious woman , Compact with her that 's gone , think 'st thou thy oaths , Though they would swear down each particular saint , Were testimonies against his worth and credit That 's seal 'd in approbation ? You , Lord Escalus , Sit with my cousin ; lend him your kind pains To find out this abuse , whence ' tis derived . There is another friar that set them on ; Let him be sent for .
FRIAR PETER : Would he were here , my lord ! for he indeed Hath set the women on to this complaint : Your provost knows the place where he abides And he may fetch him .
