CLAUDIO : I humbly thank you . To sue to live , I find I seek to die ; And , seeking death , find life : let it come on .
ISABELLA : What , ho ! Peace here ; grace and good company !
Provost : Who 's there ? come in : the wish deserves a welcome .
DUKE VINCENTIO : Dear sir , ere long I 'll visit you again .
CLAUDIO : Most holy sir , I thank you . Enter ISABELLA
ISABELLA : My business is a word or two with Claudio .
Provost : And very welcome . Look , signior , here 's your sister .
DUKE VINCENTIO : Provost , a word with you .
Provost : As many as you please .
DUKE VINCENTIO : Bring me to hear them speak , where I may be concealed .
CLAUDIO : Now , sister , what 's the comfort ?
ISABELLA : Why , As all comforts are ; most good , most good indeed . Lord Angelo , having affairs to heaven , Intends you for his swift ambassador , Where you shall be an everlasting leiger : Therefore your best appointment make with speed ; To-morrow you set on .
CLAUDIO : Is there no remedy ?
ISABELLA : None , but such remedy as , to save a head , To cleave a heart in twain .
CLAUDIO : But is there any ?
ISABELLA : Yes , brother , you may live : There is a devilish mercy in the judge , If you 'll implore it , that will free your life , But fetter you till death .
CLAUDIO : Perpetual durance ?
ISABELLA : Ay , just ; perpetual durance , a restraint , Though all the world 's vastidity you had , To a determined scope .
CLAUDIO : But in what nature ?
ISABELLA : In such a one as , you consenting to 't , Would bark your honour from that trunk you bear , And leave you naked .
CLAUDIO : Let me know the point .
ISABELLA : O , I do fear thee , Claudio ; and I quake , Lest thou a feverous life shouldst entertain , And six or seven winters more respect Than a perpetual honour . Darest thou die ? The sense of death is most in apprehension ; And the poor beetle , that we tread upon , In corporal sufferance finds a pang as great As when a giant dies .
CLAUDIO : Why give you me this shame ? Think you I can a resolution fetch From flowery tenderness ? If I must die , I will encounter darkness as a bride , And hug it in mine arms .
ISABELLA : There spake my brother ; there my father 's grave Did utter forth a voice . Yes , thou must die : Thou art too noble to conserve a life In base appliances . This outward-sainted deputy , Whose settled visage and deliberate word Nips youth i ' the head and follies doth emmew As falcon doth the fowl , is yet a devil His filth within being cast , he would appear A pond as deep as hell .
CLAUDIO : The prenzie Angelo !
ISABELLA : O , ' tis the cunning livery of hell , The damned 'st body to invest and cover In prenzie guards ! Dost thou think , Claudio ? If I would yield him my virginity , Thou mightst be freed .
CLAUDIO : O heavens ! it cannot be .
ISABELLA : Yes , he would give 't thee , from this rank offence , So to offend him still . This night 's the time That I should do what I abhor to name , Or else thou diest to-morrow .
CLAUDIO : Thou shalt not do 't .
ISABELLA : O , were it but my life , I 'ld throw it down for your deliverance As frankly as a pin .
CLAUDIO : Thanks , dear Isabel .
ISABELLA : Be ready , Claudio , for your death tomorrow .
CLAUDIO : Yes . Has he affections in him , That thus can make him bite the law by the nose , When he would force it ? Sure , it is no sin , Or of the deadly seven , it is the least .
ISABELLA : Which is the least ?
