ISABELLA : What says my brother ?
CLAUDIO : Death is a fearful thing .
ISABELLA : And shamed life a hateful .
CLAUDIO : Ay , but to die , and go we know not where ; To lie in cold obstruction and to rot ; This sensible warm motion to become A kneaded clod ; and the delighted spirit To bathe in fiery floods , or to reside In thrilling region of thick-ribbed ice ; To be imprison 'd in the viewless winds , And blown with restless violence round about The pendent world ; or to be worse than worst Of those that lawless and incertain thought Imagine howling : ' tis too horrible ! The weariest and most loathed worldly life That age , ache , penury and imprisonment Can lay on nature is a paradise To what we fear of death .
ISABELLA : Alas , alas !
CLAUDIO : Sweet sister , let me live : What sin you do to save a brother 's life , Nature dispenses with the deed so far That it becomes a virtue .
ISABELLA : O you beast ! O faithless coward ! O dishonest wretch ! Wilt thou be made a man out of my vice ? Is 't not a kind of incest , to take life From thine own sister 's shame ? What should I think ? Heaven shield my mother play 'd my father fair ! For such a warped slip of wilderness Ne 'er issued from his blood . Take my defiance ! Die , perish ! Might but my bending down Reprieve thee from thy fate , it should proceed : I 'll pray a thousand prayers for thy death , No word to save thee .
CLAUDIO : Nay , hear me , Isabel .
ISABELLA : O , fie , fie , fie ! Thy sin 's not accidental , but a trade . Mercy to thee would prove itself a bawd : ' Tis best thou diest quickly .
CLAUDIO : O hear me , Isabella ! Re-enter DUKE VINCENTIO
DUKE VINCENTIO : Vouchsafe a word , young sister , but one word .
ISABELLA : What is your will ?
DUKE VINCENTIO : Might you dispense with your leisure , I would by and by have some speech with you : the satisfaction I would require is likewise your own benefit .
ISABELLA : I have no superfluous leisure ; my stay must be stolen out of other affairs ; but I will attend you awhile . Walks apart
DUKE VINCENTIO : Son , I have overheard what hath passed between you and your sister . Angelo had never the purpose to corrupt her ; only he hath made an essay of her virtue to practise his judgment with the disposition of natures : she , having the truth of honour in her , hath made him that gracious denial which he is most glad to receive . I am confessor to Angelo , and I know this to be true ; therefore prepare yourself to death : do not satisfy your resolution with hopes that are fallible : tomorrow you must die ; go to your knees and make ready .
CLAUDIO : Let me ask my sister pardon . I am so out of love with life that I will sue to be rid of it .
DUKE VINCENTIO : Hold you there : farewell . Exit CLAUDIO Provost , a word with you ! Re-enter Provost
Provost : What 's your will , father
DUKE VINCENTIO : That now you are come , you will be gone . Leave me awhile with the maid : my mind promises with my habit no loss shall touch her by my company .
Provost : In good time . Exit Provost . ISABELLA comes forward
DUKE VINCENTIO : The hand that hath made you fair hath made you good : the goodness that is cheap in beauty makes beauty brief in goodness ; but grace , being the soul of your complexion , shall keep the body of it ever fair . The assault that Angelo hath made to you , fortune hath conveyed to my understanding ; and , but that frailty hath examples for his falling , I should wonder at Angelo . How will you do to content this substitute , and to save your brother ?
