DUKE VINCENTIO : That shall not be much amiss : Yet , as the matter now stands , he will avoid your accusation ; he made trial of you only . Therefore fasten your ear on my advisings : to the love I have in doing good a remedy presents itself . I do make myself believe that you may most uprighteously do a poor wronged lady a merited benefit ; redeem your brother from the angry law ; do no stain to your own gracious person ; and much please the absent duke , if peradventure he shall ever return to have hearing of this business .
ISABELLA : Let me hear you speak farther . I have spirit to do anything that appears not foul in the truth of my spirit .
DUKE VINCENTIO : Virtue is bold , and goodness never fearful . Have you not heard speak of Mariana , the sister of Frederick the great soldier who miscarried at sea ?
ISABELLA : I have heard of the lady , and good words went with her name .
DUKE VINCENTIO : She should this Angelo have married ; was affianced to her by oath , and the nuptial appointed : between which time of the contract and limit of the solemnity , her brother Frederick was wrecked at sea , having in that perished vessel the dowry of his sister . But mark how heavily this befell to the poor gentlewoman : there she lost a noble and renowned brother , in his love toward her ever most kind and natural ; with him , the portion and sinew of her fortune , her marriage-dowry ; with both , her combinate husband , this well-seeming Angelo .
ISABELLA : Can this be so ? did Angelo so leave her ?
DUKE VINCENTIO : Left her in her tears , and dried not one of them with his comfort ; swallowed his vows whole , pretending in her discoveries of dishonour : in few , bestowed her on her own lamentation , which she yet wears for his sake ; and he , a marble to her tears , is washed with them , but relents not .
ISABELLA : What a merit were it in death to take this poor maid from the world ! What corruption in this life , that it will let this man live ! But how out of this can she avail ?
DUKE VINCENTIO : It is a rupture that you may easily heal : and the cure of it not only saves your brother , but keeps you from dishonour in doing it .
ISABELLA : Show me how , good father .
DUKE VINCENTIO : This forenamed maid hath yet in her the continuance of her first affection : his unjust unkindness , that in all reason should have quenched her love , hath , like an impediment in the current , made it more violent and unruly . Go you to Angelo ; answer his requiring with a plausible obedience ; agree with his demands to the point ; only refer yourself to this advantage , first , that your stay with him may not be long ; that the time may have all shadow and silence in it ; and the place answer to convenience . This being granted in course , --and now follows all , --we shall advise this wronged maid to stead up your appointment , go in your place ; if the encounter acknowledge itself hereafter , it may compel him to her recompense : and here , by this , is your brother saved , your honour untainted , the poor Mariana advantaged , and the corrupt deputy scaled . The maid will I frame and make fit for his attempt . If you think well to carry this as you may , the doubleness of the benefit defends the deceit from reproof . What think you of it ?
ISABELLA : The image of it gives me content already ; and I trust it will grow to a most prosperous perfection .
DUKE VINCENTIO : It lies much in your holding up . Haste you speedily to Angelo : if for this night he entreat you to his bed , give him promise of satisfaction . I will presently to Saint Luke 's : there , at the moated grange , resides this dejected Mariana . At that place call upon me ; and dispatch with Angelo , that it may be quickly .
