MARIANA : O my most gracious lord , I hope you will not mock me with a husband .
DUKE VINCENTIO : It is your husband mock 'd you with a husband . Consenting to the safeguard of your honour , I thought your marriage fit ; else imputation , For that he knew you , might reproach your life And choke your good to come ; for his possessions , Although by confiscation they are ours , We do instate and widow you withal , To buy you a better husband .
MARIANA : O my dear lord , I crave no other , nor no better man .
DUKE VINCENTIO : Never crave him ; we are definitive .
MARIANA : Gentle my liege , -- Kneeling
DUKE VINCENTIO : You do but lose your labour . Away with him to death ! To LUCIO Now , sir , to you .
MARIANA : O my good lord ! Sweet Isabel , take my part ; Lend me your knees , and all my life to come I 'll lend you all my life to do you service .
DUKE VINCENTIO : Against all sense you do importune her : Should she kneel down in mercy of this fact , Her brother 's ghost his paved bed would break , And take her hence in horror .
MARIANA : Isabel , Sweet Isabel , do yet but kneel by me ; Hold up your hands , say nothing ; I 'll speak all . They say , best men are moulded out of faults ; And , for the most , become much more the better For being a little bad : so may my husband . O Isabel , will you not lend a knee ?
DUKE VINCENTIO : He dies for Claudio 's death .
ISABELLA : Most bounteous sir , Kneeling Look , if it please you , on this man condemn 'd , As if my brother lived : I partly think A due sincerity govern 'd his deeds , Till he did look on me : since it is so , Let him not die . My brother had but justice , In that he did the thing for which he died : For Angelo , His act did not o 'ertake his bad intent , And must be buried but as an intent That perish 'd by the way : thoughts are no subjects ; Intents but merely thoughts .
MARIANA : Merely , my lord .
DUKE VINCENTIO : Your suit 's unprofitable ; stand up , I say . I have bethought me of another fault . Provost , how came it Claudio was beheaded At an unusual hour ?
Provost : It was commanded so .
DUKE VINCENTIO : Had you a special warrant for the deed ?
Provost : No , my good lord ; it was by private message .
DUKE VINCENTIO : For which I do discharge you of your office : Give up your keys .
Provost : Pardon me , noble lord : I thought it was a fault , but knew it not ; Yet did repent me , after more advice ; For testimony whereof , one in the prison , That should by private order else have died , I have reserved alive .
DUKE VINCENTIO : What 's he ?
Provost : His name is Barnardine .
DUKE VINCENTIO : I would thou hadst done so by Claudio . Go fetch him hither ; let me look upon him . Exit Provost
ESCALUS : I am sorry , one so learned and so wise As you , Lord Angelo , have still appear 'd , Should slip so grossly , both in the heat of blood . And lack of temper 'd judgment afterward .
ANGELO : I am sorry that such sorrow I procure : And so deep sticks it in my penitent heart That I crave death more willingly than mercy ; ' Tis my deserving , and I do entreat it . Re-enter Provost , with BARNARDINE , CLAUDIO muffled , and JULIET
DUKE VINCENTIO : Which is that Barnardine ?
Provost : This , my lord .
