DUKE VINCENTIO : You must , sir , change persons with me , ere you make that my report : you , indeed , spoke so of him ; and much more , much worse .
LUCIO : O thou damnable fellow ! Did not I pluck thee by the nose for thy speeches ?
DUKE VINCENTIO : I protest I love the duke as I love myself .
ANGELO : Hark , how the villain would close now , after his treasonable abuses !
ESCALUS : Such a fellow is not to be talked withal . Away with him to prison ! Where is the provost ? Away with him to prison ! lay bolts enough upon him : let him speak no more . Away with those giglots too , and with the other confederate companion !
DUKE VINCENTIO : Stay , sir ; stay awhile .
ANGELO : What , resists he ? Help him , Lucio .
LUCIO : Come , sir ; come , sir ; come , sir ; foh , sir ! Why , you bald-pated , lying rascal , you must be hooded , must you ? Show your knave 's visage , with a pox to you ! show your sheep-biting face , and be hanged an hour ! Will 't not off ? Pulls off the friar 's hood , and discovers DUKE VINCENTIO
DUKE VINCENTIO : Thou art the first knave that e 'er madest a duke . First , provost , let me bail these gentle three . To LUCIO Sneak not away , sir ; for the friar and you Must have a word anon . Lay hold on him .
LUCIO : This may prove worse than hanging .
DUKE VINCENTIO : What you have spoke I pardon : sit you down : We 'll borrow place of him . To ANGELO Sir , by your leave . Hast thou or word , or wit , or impudence , That yet can do thee office ? If thou hast , Rely upon it till my tale be heard , And hold no longer out .
ANGELO : O my dread lord , I should be guiltier than my guiltiness , To think I can be undiscernible , When I perceive your grace , like power divine , Hath look 'd upon my passes . Then , good prince , No longer session hold upon my shame , But let my trial be mine own confession : Immediate sentence then and sequent death Is all the grace I beg .
DUKE VINCENTIO : Come hither , Mariana . Say , wast thou e 'er contracted to this woman ?
ANGELO : I was , my lord .
DUKE VINCENTIO : Go take her hence , and marry her instantly . Do you the office , friar ; which consummate , Return him here again . Go with him , provost .
ESCALUS : My lord , I am more amazed at his dishonour Than at the strangeness of it .
DUKE VINCENTIO : Come hither , Isabel . Your friar is now your prince : as I was then Advertising and holy to your business , Not changing heart with habit , I am still Attorney 'd at your service .
ISABELLA : O , give me pardon , That I , your vassal , have employ 'd and pain 'd Your unknown sovereignty !
DUKE VINCENTIO : You are pardon 'd , Isabel : And now , dear maid , be you as free to us . Your brother 's death , I know , sits at your heart ; And you may marvel why I obscured myself , Labouring to save his life , and would not rather Make rash remonstrance of my hidden power Than let him so be lost . O most kind maid , It was the swift celerity of his death , Which I did think with slower foot came on , That brain 'd my purpose . But , peace be with him ! That life is better life , past fearing death , Than that which lives to fear : make it your comfort , So happy is your brother .
ISABELLA : I do , my lord . Re-enter ANGELO , MARIANA , FRIAR PETER , and Provost
