ANGELO : Pray you , be gone .
ISABELLA : I would to heaven I had your potency , And you were Isabel ! should it then be thus ? No ; I would tell what ' twere to be a judge , And what a prisoner .
LUCIO : Ay , touch him ; there 's the vein .
ANGELO : Your brother is a forfeit of the law , And you but waste your words .
ISABELLA : Alas , alas ! Why , all the souls that were were forfeit once ; And He that might the vantage best have took Found out the remedy . How would you be , If He , which is the top of judgment , should But judge you as you are ? O , think on that ; And mercy then will breathe within your lips , Like man new made .
ANGELO : Be you content , fair maid ; It is the law , not I condemn your brother : Were he my kinsman , brother , or my son , It should be thus with him : he must die tomorrow .
ISABELLA : To-morrow ! O , that 's sudden ! Spare him , spare him ! He 's not prepared for death . Even for our kitchens We kill the fowl of season : shall we serve heaven With less respect than we do minister To our gross selves ? Good , good my lord , bethink you ; Who is it that hath died for this offence ? There 's many have committed it .
LUCIO : Ay , well said .
ANGELO : The law hath not been dead , though it hath slept : Those many had not dared to do that evil , If the first that did the edict infringe Had answer 'd for his deed : now ' tis awake Takes note of what is done ; and , like a prophet , Looks in a glass , that shows what future evils , Either new , or by remissness new-conceived , And so in progress to be hatch 'd and born , Are now to have no successive degrees , But , ere they live , to end .
ISABELLA : Yet show some pity .
ANGELO : I show it most of all when I show justice ; For then I pity those I do not know , Which a dismiss 'd offence would after gall ; And do him right that , answering one foul wrong , Lives not to act another . Be satisfied ; Your brother dies to-morrow ; be content .
ISABELLA : So you must be the first that gives this sentence , And he , that suffer 's . O , it is excellent To have a giant 's strength ; but it is tyrannous To use it like a giant .
LUCIO : That 's well said .
ISABELLA : Could great men thunder As Jove himself does , Jove would ne 'er be quiet , For every pelting , petty officer Would use his heaven for thunder ; Nothing but thunder ! Merciful Heaven , Thou rather with thy sharp and sulphurous bolt Split 'st the unwedgeable and gnarled oak Than the soft myrtle : but man , proud man , Drest in a little brief authority , Most ignorant of what he 's most assured , His glassy essence , like an angry ape , Plays such fantastic tricks before high heaven As make the angels weep ; who , with our spleens , Would all themselves laugh mortal .
LUCIO : O , to him , to him , wench ! he will relent ; He 's coming ; I perceive ' t .
Provost : Pray heaven she win him !
ISABELLA : We cannot weigh our brother with ourself : Great men may jest with saints ; ' tis wit in them , But in the less foul profanation .
LUCIO : Thou 'rt i ' the right , girl ; more o , that .
ISABELLA : That in the captain 's but a choleric word , Which in the soldier is flat blasphemy .
LUCIO : Art avised o ' that ? more on ' t .
ANGELO : Why do you put these sayings upon me ?
