ELBOW : Nay , if there be no remedy for it , but that you will needs buy and sell men and women like beasts , we shall have all the world drink brown and white bastard .
DUKE VINCENTIO : O heavens ! what stuff is here
POMPEY : ' Twas never merry world since , of two usuries , the merriest was put down , and the worser allowed by order of law a furred gown to keep him warm ; and furred with fox and lamb-skins too , to signify , that craft , being richer than innocency , stands for the facing .
ELBOW : Come your way , sir . ' Bless you , good father friar .
DUKE VINCENTIO : And you , good brother father . What offence hath this man made you , sir ?
ELBOW : Marry , sir , he hath offended the law : and , sir , we take him to be a thief too , sir ; for we have found upon him , sir , a strange picklock , which we have sent to the deputy .
DUKE VINCENTIO : Fie , sirrah ! a bawd , a wicked bawd ! The evil that thou causest to be done , That is thy means to live . Do thou but think What ' tis to cram a maw or clothe a back From such a filthy vice : say to thyself , From their abominable and beastly touches I drink , I eat , array myself , and live . Canst thou believe thy living is a life , So stinkingly depending ? Go mend , go mend .
POMPEY : Indeed , it does stink in some sort , sir ; but yet , sir , I would prove--
DUKE VINCENTIO : Nay , if the devil have given thee proofs for sin , Thou wilt prove his . Take him to prison , officer : Correction and instruction must both work Ere this rude beast will profit .
ELBOW : He must before the deputy , sir ; he has given him warning : the deputy cannot abide a whoremaster : if he be a whoremonger , and comes before him , he were as good go a mile on his errand .
DUKE VINCENTIO : That we were all , as some would seem to be , From our faults , as faults from seeming , free !
ELBOW : His neck will come to your waist , --a cord , sir .
POMPEY : I spy comfort ; I cry bail . Here 's a gentleman and a friend of mine . Enter LUCIO
LUCIO : How now , noble Pompey ! What , at the wheels of Caesar ? art thou led in triumph ? What , is there none of Pygmalion 's images , newly made woman , to be had now , for putting the hand in the pocket and extracting it clutch 'd ? What reply , ha ? What sayest thou to this tune , matter and method ? Is 't not drowned i ' the last rain , ha ? What sayest thou , Trot ? Is the world as it was , man ? Which is the way ? Is it sad , and few words ? or how ? The trick of it ?
DUKE VINCENTIO : Still thus , and thus ; still worse !
LUCIO : How doth my dear morsel , thy mistress ? Procures she still , ha ?
POMPEY : Troth , sir , she hath eaten up all her beef , and she is herself in the tub .
LUCIO : Why , ' tis good ; it is the right of it ; it must be so : ever your fresh whore and your powdered bawd : an unshunned consequence ; it must be so . Art going to prison , Pompey ?
POMPEY : Yes , faith , sir .
LUCIO : Why , ' tis not amiss , Pompey . Farewell : go , say I sent thee thither . For debt , Pompey ? or how ?
ELBOW : For being a bawd , for being a bawd .
