ABHORSON : Look you , sir ; here comes your ghostly father : do we jest now , think you ? Enter DUKE VINCENTIO disguised as before
DUKE VINCENTIO : Sir , induced by my charity , and hearing how hastily you are to depart , I am come to advise you , comfort you and pray with you .
BARNARDINE : Friar , not I I have been drinking hard all night , and I will have more time to prepare me , or they shall beat out my brains with billets : I will not consent to die this day , that 's certain .
DUKE VINCENTIO : O , sir , you must : and therefore I beseech you Look forward on the journey you shall go .
BARNARDINE : I swear I will not die to-day for any man 's persuasion .
DUKE VINCENTIO : But hear you .
BARNARDINE : Not a word : if you have any thing to say to me , come to my ward ; for thence will not I to-day . Exit
DUKE VINCENTIO : Unfit to live or die : O gravel heart ! After him , fellows ; bring him to the block . Re-enter Provost
Provost : Now , sir , how do you find the prisoner ?
DUKE VINCENTIO : A creature unprepared , unmeet for death ; And to transport him in the mind he is Were damnable .
Provost : Here in the prison , father , There died this morning of a cruel fever One Ragozine , a most notorious pirate , A man of Claudio 's years ; his beard and head Just of his colour . What if we do omit This reprobate till he were well inclined ; And satisfy the deputy with the visage Of Ragozine , more like to Claudio ?
DUKE VINCENTIO : O , ' tis an accident that heaven provides ! Dispatch it presently ; the hour draws on Prefix 'd by Angelo : see this be done , And sent according to command ; whiles I Persuade this rude wretch willingly to die .
Provost : This shall be done , good father , presently . But Barnardine must die this afternoon : And how shall we continue Claudio , To save me from the danger that might come If he were known alive ?
DUKE VINCENTIO : Let this be done . Put them in secret holds , both Barnardine and Claudio : Ere twice the sun hath made his journal greeting To the under generation , you shall find Your safety manifested .
Provost : I am your free dependant .
DUKE VINCENTIO : Quick , dispatch , and send the head to Angelo . Exit Provost Now will I write letters to Angelo , -- The provost , he shall bear them , whose contents Shall witness to him I am near at home , And that , by great injunctions , I am bound To enter publicly : him I 'll desire To meet me at the consecrated fount A league below the city ; and from thence , By cold gradation and well-balanced form , We shall proceed with Angelo . Re-enter Provost
Provost : Here is the head ; I 'll carry it myself .
DUKE VINCENTIO : Convenient is it . Make a swift return ; For I would commune with you of such things That want no ear but yours .
Provost : I 'll make all speed . Exit
ISABELLA : Peace , ho , be here !
DUKE VINCENTIO : The tongue of Isabel . She 's come to know If yet her brother 's pardon be come hither : But I will keep her ignorant of her good , To make her heavenly comforts of despair , When it is least expected . Enter ISABELLA
ISABELLA : Ho , by your leave !
DUKE VINCENTIO : Good morning to you , fair and gracious daughter .
ISABELLA : The better , given me by so holy a man . Hath yet the deputy sent my brother 's pardon ?
DUKE VINCENTIO : He hath released him , Isabel , from the world : His head is off and sent to Angelo .
ISABELLA : Nay , but it is not so .
DUKE VINCENTIO : It is no other : show your wisdom , daughter , In your close patience .
ISABELLA : O , I will to him and pluck out his eyes !
