Provost : I shall obey him . Exit Messenger
DUKE VINCENTIO : This is his pardon , purchased by such sin For which the pardoner himself is in . Hence hath offence his quick celerity , When it is born in high authority : When vice makes mercy , mercy 's so extended , That for the fault 's love is the offender friended . Now , sir , what news ?
Provost : I told you . Lord Angelo , belike thinking me remiss in mine office , awakens me with this unwonted putting-on ; methinks strangely , for he hath not used it before .
DUKE VINCENTIO : Pray you , let 's hear .
Provost : ' Whatsoever you may hear to the contrary , let Claudio be executed by four of the clock ; and in the afternoon Barnardine : for my better satisfaction , let me have Claudio 's head sent me by five . Let this be duly performed ; with a thought that more depends on it than we must yet deliver . Thus fail not to do your office , as you will answer it at your peril . ' What say you to this , sir ?
DUKE VINCENTIO : What is that Barnardine who is to be executed in the afternoon ?
Provost : A Bohemian born , but here nursed un and bred ; one that is a prisoner nine years old .
DUKE VINCENTIO : How came it that the absent duke had not either delivered him to his liberty or executed him ? I have heard it was ever his manner to do so .
Provost : His friends still wrought reprieves for him : and , indeed , his fact , till now in the government of Lord Angelo , came not to an undoubtful proof .
DUKE VINCENTIO : It is now apparent ?
Provost : Most manifest , and not denied by himself .
DUKE VINCENTIO : Hath he born himself penitently in prison ? how seems he to be touched ?
Provost : A man that apprehends death no more dreadfully but as a drunken sleep ; careless , reckless , and fearless of what 's past , present , or to come ; insensible of mortality , and desperately mortal .
DUKE VINCENTIO : He wants advice .
Provost : He will hear none : he hath evermore had the liberty of the prison ; give him leave to escape hence , he would not : drunk many times a day , if not many days entirely drunk . We have very oft awaked him , as if to carry him to execution , and showed him a seeming warrant for it : it hath not moved him at all .
DUKE VINCENTIO : More of him anon . There is written in your brow , provost , honesty and constancy : if I read it not truly , my ancient skill beguiles me ; but , in the boldness of my cunning , I will lay myself in hazard . Claudio , whom here you have warrant to execute , is no greater forfeit to the law than Angelo who hath sentenced him . To make you understand this in a manifested effect , I crave but four days ' respite ; for the which you are to do me both a present and a dangerous courtesy .
Provost : Pray , sir , in what ?
DUKE VINCENTIO : In the delaying death .
Provost : A lack , how may I do it , having the hour limited , and an express command , under penalty , to deliver his head in the view of Angelo ? I may make my case as Claudio 's , to cross this in the smallest .
DUKE VINCENTIO : By the vow of mine order I warrant you , if my instructions may be your guide . Let this Barnardine be this morning executed , and his head born to Angelo .
Provost : Angelo hath seen them both , and will discover the favour .
