ISABELLA : How say you ?
ANGELO : Nay , I 'll not warrant that ; for I can speak Against the thing I say . Answer to this : I , now the voice of the recorded law , Pronounce a sentence on your brother 's life : Might there not be a charity in sin To save this brother 's life ?
ISABELLA : Please you to do 't , I 'll take it as a peril to my soul , It is no sin at all , but charity .
ANGELO : Pleased you to do 't at peril of your soul , Were equal poise of sin and charity .
ISABELLA : That I do beg his life , if it be sin , Heaven let me bear it ! you granting of my suit , If that be sin , I 'll make it my morn prayer To have it added to the faults of mine , And nothing of your answer .
ANGELO : Nay , but hear me . Your sense pursues not mine : either you are ignorant , Or seem so craftily ; and that 's not good .
ISABELLA : Let me be ignorant , and in nothing good , But graciously to know I am no better .
ANGELO : Thus wisdom wishes to appear most bright When it doth tax itself ; as these black masks Proclaim an enshield beauty ten times louder Than beauty could , display 'd . But mark me ; To be received plain , I 'll speak more gross : Your brother is to die .
ISABELLA : So .
ANGELO : And his offence is so , as it appears , Accountant to the law upon that pain .
ISABELLA : True .
ANGELO : Admit no other way to save his life , -- As I subscribe not that , nor any other , But in the loss of question , --that you , his sister , Finding yourself desired of such a person , Whose credit with the judge , or own great place , Could fetch your brother from the manacles Of the all-building law ; and that there were No earthly mean to save him , but that either You must lay down the treasures of your body To this supposed , or else to let him suffer ; What would you do ?
ISABELLA : As much for my poor brother as myself : That is , were I under the terms of death , The impression of keen whips I 'ld wear as rubies , And strip myself to death , as to a bed That longing have been sick for , ere I 'ld yield My body up to shame .
ANGELO : Then must your brother die .
ISABELLA : And ' twere the cheaper way : Better it were a brother died at once , Than that a sister , by redeeming him , Should die for ever .
ANGELO : Were not you then as cruel as the sentence That you have slander 'd so ?
ISABELLA : Ignomy in ransom and free pardon Are of two houses : lawful mercy Is nothing kin to foul redemption .
ANGELO : You seem 'd of late to make the law a tyrant ; And rather proved the sliding of your brother A merriment than a vice .
ISABELLA : O , pardon me , my lord ; it oft falls out , To have what we would have , we speak not what we mean : I something do excuse the thing I hate , For his advantage that I dearly love .
ANGELO : We are all frail .
ISABELLA : Else let my brother die , If not a feodary , but only he Owe and succeed thy weakness .
ANGELO : Nay , women are frail too .
ISABELLA : Ay , as the glasses where they view themselves ; Which are as easy broke as they make forms . Women ! Help Heaven ! men their creation mar In profiting by them . Nay , call us ten times frail ; For we are soft as our complexions are , And credulous to false prints .
