Provost : Pardon me , good father ; it is against my oath .
DUKE VINCENTIO : Were you sworn to the duke , or to the deputy ?
Provost : To him , and to his substitutes .
DUKE VINCENTIO : You will think you have made no offence , if the duke avouch the justice of your dealing ?
Provost : But what likelihood is in that ?
DUKE VINCENTIO : Not a resemblance , but a certainty . Yet since I see you fearful , that neither my coat , integrity , nor persuasion can with ease attempt you , I will go further than I meant , to pluck all fears out of you . Look you , sir , here is the hand and seal of the duke : you know the character , I doubt not ; and the signet is not strange to you .
Provost : I know them both .
DUKE VINCENTIO : The contents of this is the return of the duke : you shall anon over-read it at your pleasure ; where you shall find , within these two days he will be here . This is a thing that Angelo knows not ; for he this very day receives letters of strange tenor ; perchance of the duke 's death ; perchance entering into some monastery ; but , by chance , nothing of what is writ . Look , the unfolding star calls up the shepherd . Put not yourself into amazement how these things should be : all difficulties are but easy when they are known . Call your executioner , and off with Barnardine 's head : I will give him a present shrift and advise him for a better place . Yet you are amazed ; but this shall absolutely resolve you . Come away ; it is almost clear dawn . Enter POMPEY
POMPEY : I am as well acquainted here as I was in our house of profession : one would think it were Mistress Overdone 's own house , for here be many of her old customers . First , here 's young Master Rash ; he 's in for a commodity of brown paper and old ginger , ninescore and seventeen pounds ; of which he made five marks , ready money : marry , then ginger was not much in request , for the old women were all dead . Then is there here one Master Caper , at the suit of Master Three-pile the mercer , for some four suits of peach-coloured satin , which now peaches him a beggar . Then have we here young Dizy , and young Master Deep-vow , and Master Copperspur , and Master Starve-lackey the rapier and dagger man , and young Drop-heir that killed lusty Pudding , and Master Forthlight the tilter , and brave Master Shooty the great traveller , and wild Half-can that stabbed Pots , and , I think , forty more ; all great doers in our trade , and are now ' for the Lord 's sake . ' Enter ABHORSON
ABHORSON : Sirrah , bring Barnardine hither .
POMPEY : Master Barnardine ! you must rise and be hanged . Master Barnardine !
ABHORSON : What , ho , Barnardine !
BARNARDINE : A pox o ' your throats ! Who makes that noise there ? What are you ?
POMPEY : Your friends , sir ; the hangman . You must be so good , sir , to rise and be put to death .
BARNARDINE : Away , you rogue , away ! I am sleepy .
ABHORSON : Tell him he must awake , and that quickly too .
POMPEY : Pray , Master Barnardine , awake till you are executed , and sleep afterwards .
ABHORSON : Go in to him , and fetch him out .
POMPEY : He is coming , sir , he is coming ; I hear his straw rustle .
ABHORSON : Is the axe upon the block , sirrah ?
POMPEY : Very ready , sir . Enter BARNARDINE
BARNARDINE : How now , Abhorson ? what 's the news with you ?
ABHORSON : Truly , sir , I would desire you to clap into your prayers ; for , look you , the warrant 's come .
BARNARDINE : You rogue , I have been drinking all night ; I am not fitted for ' t .
