ABHORSON : Ay , sir ; a mystery
POMPEY : Painting , sir , I have heard say , is a mystery ; and your whores , sir , being members of my occupation , using painting , do prove my occupation a mystery : but what mystery there should be in hanging , if I should be hanged , I cannot imagine .
ABHORSON : Sir , it is a mystery .
POMPEY : Proof ?
ABHORSON : Every true man 's apparel fits your thief : if it be too little for your thief , your true man thinks it big enough ; if it be too big for your thief , your thief thinks it little enough : so every true man 's apparel fits your thief . Re-enter Provost
Provost : Are you agreed ?
POMPEY : Sir , I will serve him ; for I do find your hangman is a more penitent trade than your bawd ; he doth oftener ask forgiveness .
Provost : You , sirrah , provide your block and your axe to-morrow four o 'clock .
ABHORSON : Come on , bawd ; I will instruct thee in my trade ; follow .
POMPEY : I do desire to learn , sir : and I hope , if you have occasion to use me for your own turn , you shall find me yare ; for truly , sir , for your kindness I owe you a good turn .
Provost : Call hither Barnardine and Claudio : The one has my pity ; not a jot the other , Being a murderer , though he were my brother . Enter CLAUDIO Look , here 's the warrant , Claudio , for thy death : ' Tis now dead midnight , and by eight to-morrow Thou must be made immortal . Where 's Barnardine ?
CLAUDIO : As fast lock 'd up in sleep as guiltless labour When it lies starkly in the traveller 's bones : He will not wake .
Provost : Who can do good on him ? Well , go , prepare yourself . Knocking within But , hark , what noise ? Heaven give your spirits comfort ! Exit CLAUDIO By and by . I hope it is some pardon or reprieve For the most gentle Claudio . Enter DUKE VINCENTIO disguised as before Welcome father .
DUKE VINCENTIO : The best and wholesomest spirts of the night Envelope you , good Provost ! Who call 'd here of late ?
Provost : None , since the curfew rung .
DUKE VINCENTIO : Not Isabel ?
Provost : No .
DUKE VINCENTIO : They will , then , ere 't be long .
Provost : What comfort is for Claudio ?
DUKE VINCENTIO : There 's some in hope .
Provost : It is a bitter deputy .
DUKE VINCENTIO : Not so , not so ; his life is parallel 'd Even with the stroke and line of his great justice : He doth with holy abstinence subdue That in himself which he spurs on his power To qualify in others : were he meal 'd with that Which he corrects , then were he tyrannous ; But this being so , he 's just . Knocking within Now are they come . Exit Provost This is a gentle provost : seldom when The steeled gaoler is the friend of men . Knocking within How now ! what noise ? That spirit 's possessed with haste That wounds the unsisting postern with these strokes . Re-enter Provost
Provost : There he must stay until the officer Arise to let him in : he is call 'd up .
DUKE VINCENTIO : Have you no countermand for Claudio yet , But he must die to-morrow ?
Provost : None , sir , none .
DUKE VINCENTIO : As near the dawning , provost , as it is , You shall hear more ere morning .
Provost : Happily You something know ; yet I believe there comes No countermand ; no such example have we : Besides , upon the very siege of justice Lord Angelo hath to the public ear Profess 'd the contrary . Enter a Messenger This is his lordship 's man .
DUKE VINCENTIO : And here comes Claudio 's pardon .
