ESCALUS : My lord , we 'll do it throughly . Exit DUKE Signior Lucio , did not you say you knew that Friar Lodowick to be a dishonest person ?
LUCIO : ' Cucullus non facit monachum : ' honest in nothing but in his clothes ; and one that hath spoke most villanous speeches of the duke .
ESCALUS : We shall entreat you to abide here till he come and enforce them against him : we shall find this friar a notable fellow .
LUCIO : As any in Vienna , on my word .
ESCALUS : Call that same Isabel here once again ; I would speak with her . Exit an Attendant Pray you , my lord , give me leave to question ; you shall see how I 'll handle her .
LUCIO : Not better than he , by her own report .
ESCALUS : Say you ?
LUCIO : Marry , sir , I think , if you handled her privately , she would sooner confess : perchance , publicly , she 'll be ashamed .
ESCALUS : I will go darkly to work with her .
LUCIO : That 's the way ; for women are light at midnight . Re-enter Officers with ISABELLA ; and Provost with the DUKE VINCENTIO in his friar 's habit
ESCALUS : Come on , mistress : here 's a gentlewoman denies all that you have said .
LUCIO : My lord , here comes the rascal I spoke of ; here with the provost .
ESCALUS : In very good time : speak not you to him till we call upon you .
LUCIO : Mum .
ESCALUS : Come , sir : did you set these women on to slander Lord Angelo ? they have confessed you did .
DUKE VINCENTIO : ' Tis false .
ESCALUS : How ! know you where you are ?
DUKE VINCENTIO : Respect to your great place ! and let the devil Be sometime honour 'd for his burning throne ! Where is the duke ? ' tis he should hear me speak .
ESCALUS : The duke 's in us ; and we will hear you speak : Look you speak justly .
DUKE VINCENTIO : Boldly , at least . But , O , poor souls , Come you to seek the lamb here of the fox ? Good night to your redress ! Is the duke gone ? Then is your cause gone too . The duke 's unjust , Thus to retort your manifest appeal , And put your trial in the villain 's mouth Which here you come to accuse .
LUCIO : This is the rascal ; this is he I spoke of .
ESCALUS : Why , thou unreverend and unhallow 'd friar , Is 't not enough thou hast suborn 'd these women To accuse this worthy man , but , in foul mouth And in the witness of his proper ear , To call him villain ? and then to glance from him To the duke himself , to tax him with injustice ? Take him hence ; to the rack with him ! We 'll touse you Joint by joint , but we will know his purpose . What ' unjust ' !
DUKE VINCENTIO : Be not so hot ; the duke Dare no more stretch this finger of mine than he Dare rack his own : his subject am I not , Nor here provincial . My business in this state Made me a looker on here in Vienna , Where I have seen corruption boil and bubble Till it o 'er-run the stew ; laws for all faults , But faults so countenanced , that the strong statutes Stand like the forfeits in a barber 's shop , As much in mock as mark .
ESCALUS : Slander to the state ! Away with him to prison !
ANGELO : What can you vouch against him , Signior Lucio ? Is this the man that you did tell us of ?
LUCIO : ' Tis he , my lord . Come hither , goodman baldpate : do you know me ?
DUKE VINCENTIO : I remember you , sir , by the sound of your voice : I met you at the prison , in the absence of the duke .
LUCIO : O , did you so ? And do you remember what you said of the duke ?
DUKE VINCENTIO : Most notedly , sir .
