DUKE VINCENTIO : But shall you on your knowledge find this way ?
ISABELLA : I have ta 'en a due and wary note upon 't : With whispering and most guilty diligence , In action all of precept , he did show me The way twice o 'er .
DUKE VINCENTIO : Are there no other tokens Between you ' greed concerning her observance ?
ISABELLA : No , none , but only a repair i ' the dark ; And that I have possess 'd him my most stay Can be but brief ; for I have made him know I have a servant comes with me along , That stays upon me , whose persuasion is I come about my brother .
DUKE VINCENTIO : ' Tis well borne up . I have not yet made known to Mariana A word of this . What , ho ! within ! come forth ! Re-enter MARIANA I pray you , be acquainted with this maid ; She comes to do you good .
ISABELLA : I do desire the like .
DUKE VINCENTIO : Do you persuade yourself that I respect you ?
MARIANA : Good friar , I know you do , and have found it .
DUKE VINCENTIO : Take , then , this your companion by the hand , Who hath a story ready for your ear . I shall attend your leisure : but make haste ; The vaporous night approaches .
MARIANA : Will 't please you walk aside ?
DUKE VINCENTIO : O place and greatness ! millions of false eyes Are stuck upon thee : volumes of report Run with these false and most contrarious quests Upon thy doings : thousand escapes of wit Make thee the father of their idle dreams And rack thee in their fancies . Re-enter MARIANA and ISABELLA Welcome , how agreed ?
ISABELLA : She 'll take the enterprise upon her , father , If you advise it .
DUKE VINCENTIO : It is not my consent , But my entreaty too .
ISABELLA : Little have you to say When you depart from him , but , soft and low , ' Remember now my brother . ' 
MARIANA : Fear me not .
DUKE VINCENTIO : Nor , gentle daughter , fear you not at all . He is your husband on a pre-contract : To bring you thus together , ' tis no sin , Sith that the justice of your title to him Doth flourish the deceit . Come , let us go : Our corn 's to reap , for yet our tithe 's to sow . Enter Provost and POMPEY
Provost : Come hither , sirrah . Can you cut off a man 's head ?
POMPEY : If the man be a bachelor , sir , I can ; but if he be a married man , he 's his wife 's head , and I can never cut off a woman 's head .
Provost : Come , sir , leave me your snatches , and yield me a direct answer . To-morrow morning are to die Claudio and Barnardine . Here is in our prison a common executioner , who in his office lacks a helper : if you will take it on you to assist him , it shall redeem you from your gyves ; if not , you shall have your full time of imprisonment and your deliverance with an unpitied whipping , for you have been a notorious bawd .
POMPEY : Sir , I have been an unlawful bawd time out of mind ; but yet I will be content to be a lawful hangman . I would be glad to receive some instruction from my fellow partner .
Provost : What , ho ! Abhorson ! Where 's Abhorson , there ? Enter ABHORSON
ABHORSON : Do you call , sir ?
Provost : Sirrah , here 's a fellow will help you to-morrow in your execution . If you think it meet , compound with him by the year , and let him abide here with you ; if not , use him for the present and dismiss him . He cannot plead his estimation with you ; he hath been a bawd .
ABHORSON : A bawd , sir ? fie upon him ! he will discredit our mystery .
Provost : Go to , sir ; you weigh equally ; a feather will turn the scale . Exit
