ANGELO : She speaks , and ' tis Such sense , that my sense breeds with it . Fare you well .
ISABELLA : Gentle my lord , turn back .
ANGELO : I will bethink me : come again tomorrow .
ISABELLA : Hark how I 'll bribe you : good my lord , turn back .
ANGELO : How ! bribe me ?
ISABELLA : Ay , with such gifts that heaven shall share with you .
LUCIO : You had marr 'd all else .
ISABELLA : Not with fond shekels of the tested gold , Or stones whose rates are either rich or poor As fancy values them ; but with true prayers That shall be up at heaven and enter there Ere sun-rise , prayers from preserved souls , From fasting maids whose minds are dedicate To nothing temporal .
ANGELO : Well ; come to me to-morrow .
LUCIO : Go to ; ' tis well ; away !
ISABELLA : Heaven keep your honour safe !
ANGELO : Amen : For I am that way going to temptation , Where prayers cross .
ISABELLA : At what hour to-morrow Shall I attend your lordship ?
ANGELO : At any time ' fore noon .
ISABELLA : ' Save your honour !
ANGELO : From thee , even from thy virtue ! What 's this , what 's this ? Is this her fault or mine ? The tempter or the tempted , who sins most ? Ha ! Not she : nor doth she tempt : but it is I That , lying by the violet in the sun , Do as the carrion does , not as the flower , Corrupt with virtuous season . Can it be That modesty may more betray our sense Than woman 's lightness ? Having waste ground enough , Shall we desire to raze the sanctuary And pitch our evils there ? O , fie , fie , fie ! What dost thou , or what art thou , Angelo ? Dost thou desire her foully for those things That make her good ? O , let her brother live ! Thieves for their robbery have authority When judges steal themselves . What , do I love her , That I desire to hear her speak again , And feast upon her eyes ? What is 't I dream on ? O cunning enemy , that , to catch a saint , With saints dost bait thy hook ! Most dangerous Is that temptation that doth goad us on To sin in loving virtue : never could the strumpet , With all her double vigour , art and nature , Once stir my temper ; but this virtuous maid Subdues me quite . Even till now , When men were fond , I smiled and wonder 'd how . Exit Enter , severally , DUKE VINCENTIO disguised as a friar , and Provost
DUKE VINCENTIO : Hail to you , provost ! so I think you are .
Provost : I am the provost . What 's your will , good friar ?
DUKE VINCENTIO : Bound by my charity and my blest order , I come to visit the afflicted spirits Here in the prison . Do me the common right To let me see them and to make me know The nature of their crimes , that I may minister To them accordingly .
Provost : I would do more than that , if more were needful . Enter JULIET Look , here comes one : a gentlewoman of mine , Who , falling in the flaws of her own youth , Hath blister 'd her report : she is with child ; And he that got it , sentenced ; a young man More fit to do another such offence Than die for this .
DUKE VINCENTIO : When must he die ?
Provost : As I do think , to-morrow . I have provided for you : stay awhile , To JULIET And you shall be conducted .
DUKE VINCENTIO : Repent you , fair one , of the sin you carry ?
JULIET : I do ; and bear the shame most patiently .
DUKE VINCENTIO : I 'll teach you how you shall arraign your conscience , And try your penitence , if it be sound , Or hollowly put on .
JULIET : I 'll gladly learn .
DUKE VINCENTIO : Love you the man that wrong 'd you ?
