LUCIO : Sir , I know him , and I love him .
DUKE VINCENTIO : Love talks with better knowledge , and knowledge with dearer love .
LUCIO : Come , sir , I know what I know .
DUKE VINCENTIO : I can hardly believe that , since you know not what you speak . But , if ever the duke return , as our prayers are he may , let me desire you to make your answer before him . If it be honest you have spoke , you have courage to maintain it : I am bound to call upon you ; and , I pray you , your name ?
LUCIO : Sir , my name is Lucio ; well known to the duke .
DUKE VINCENTIO : He shall know you better , sir , if I may live to report you .
LUCIO : I fear you not .
DUKE VINCENTIO : O , you hope the duke will return no more ; or you imagine me too unhurtful an opposite . But indeed I can do you little harm ; you 'll forswear this again .
LUCIO : I 'll be hanged first : thou art deceived in me , friar . But no more of this . Canst thou tell if Claudio die to-morrow or no ?
DUKE VINCENTIO : Why should he die , sir ?
LUCIO : Why ? For filling a bottle with a tundish . I would the duke we talk of were returned again : the ungenitured agent will unpeople the province with continency ; sparrows must not build in his house-eaves , because they are lecherous . The duke yet would have dark deeds darkly answered ; he would never bring them to light : would he were returned ! Marry , this Claudio is condemned for untrussing . Farewell , good friar : I prithee , pray for me . The duke , I say to thee again , would eat mutton on Fridays . He 's not past it yet , and I say to thee , he would mouth with a beggar , though she smelt brown bread and garlic : say that I said so . Farewell . Exit
DUKE VINCENTIO : No might nor greatness in mortality Can censure ' scape ; back-wounding calumny The whitest virtue strikes . What king so strong Can tie the gall up in the slanderous tongue ? But who comes here ? Enter ESCALUS , Provost , and Officers with MISTRESS OVERDONE
ESCALUS : Go ; away with her to prison !
MISTRESS OVERDONE : Good my lord , be good to me ; your honour is accounted a merciful man ; good my lord .
ESCALUS : Double and treble admonition , and still forfeit in the same kind ! This would make mercy swear and play the tyrant .
Provost : A bawd of eleven years ' continuance , may it please your honour .
MISTRESS OVERDONE : My lord , this is one Lucio 's information against me . Mistress Kate Keepdown was with child by him in the duke 's time ; he promised her marriage : his child is a year and a quarter old , come Philip and Jacob : I have kept it myself ; and see how he goes about to abuse me !
ESCALUS : That fellow is a fellow of much licence : let him be called before us . Away with her to prison ! Go to ; no more words . Provost , my brother Angelo will not be altered ; Claudio must die to-morrow : let him be furnished with divines , and have all charitable preparation. if my brother wrought by my pity , it should not be so with him .
Provost : So please you , this friar hath been with him , and advised him for the entertainment of death .
ESCALUS : Good even , good father .
DUKE VINCENTIO : Bliss and goodness on you !
ESCALUS : Of whence are you ?
DUKE VINCENTIO : Not of this country , though my chance is now To use it for my time : I am a brother Of gracious order , late come from the See In special business from his holiness .
ESCALUS : What news abroad i ' the world ?
