LUCIO : I warrant it is : and thy head stands so tickle on thy shoulders that a milkmaid , if she be in love , may sigh it off . Send after the duke and appeal to him .
CLAUDIO : I have done so , but he 's not to be found . I prithee , Lucio , do me this kind service : This day my sister should the cloister enter And there receive her approbation : Acquaint her with the danger of my state : Implore her , in my voice , that she make friends To the strict deputy ; bid herself assay him : I have great hope in that ; for in her youth There is a prone and speechless dialect , Such as move men ; beside , she hath prosperous art When she will play with reason and discourse , And well she can persuade .
LUCIO : I pray she may ; as well for the encouragement of the like , which else would stand under grievous imposition , as for the enjoying of thy life , who I would be sorry should be thus foolishly lost at a game of tick-tack . I 'll to her .
CLAUDIO : I thank you , good friend Lucio .
LUCIO : Within two hours .
CLAUDIO : Come , officer , away ! Enter DUKE VINCENTIO and FRIAR THOMAS
DUKE VINCENTIO : No , holy father ; throw away that thought ; Believe not that the dribbling dart of love Can pierce a complete bosom . Why I desire thee To give me secret harbour , hath a purpose More grave and wrinkled than the aims and ends Of burning youth .
FRIAR THOMAS : May your grace speak of it ?
DUKE VINCENTIO : My holy sir , none better knows than you How I have ever loved the life removed And held in idle price to haunt assemblies Where youth , and cost , and witless bravery keeps . I have deliver 'd to Lord Angelo , A man of stricture and firm abstinence , My absolute power and place here in Vienna , And he supposes me travell 'd to Poland ; For so I have strew 'd it in the common ear , And so it is received . Now , pious sir , You will demand of me why I do this ?
FRIAR THOMAS : Gladly , my lord .
DUKE VINCENTIO : We have strict statutes and most biting laws . The needful bits and curbs to headstrong weeds , Which for this nineteen years we have let slip ; Even like an o 'ergrown lion in a cave , That goes not out to prey . Now , as fond fathers , Having bound up the threatening twigs of birch , Only to stick it in their children 's sight For terror , not to use , in time the rod Becomes more mock 'd than fear 'd ; so our decrees , Dead to infliction , to themselves are dead ; And liberty plucks justice by the nose ; The baby beats the nurse , and quite athwart Goes all decorum .
FRIAR THOMAS : It rested in your grace To unloose this tied-up justice when you pleased : And it in you more dreadful would have seem 'd Than in Lord Angelo .
