FROTH : I thank your worship . For mine own part , I never come into any room in a tap-house , but I am drawn in .
ESCALUS : Well , no more of it , Master Froth : farewell . Exit FROTH Come you hither to me , Master tapster . What 's your name , Master tapster ?
POMPEY : Pompey .
ESCALUS : What else ?
POMPEY : Bum , sir .
ESCALUS : Troth , and your bum is the greatest thing about you ; so that in the beastliest sense you are Pompey the Great . Pompey , you are partly a bawd , Pompey , howsoever you colour it in being a tapster , are you not ? come , tell me true : it shall be the better for you .
POMPEY : Truly , sir , I am a poor fellow that would live .
ESCALUS : How would you live , Pompey ? by being a bawd ? What do you think of the trade , Pompey ? is it a lawful trade ?
POMPEY : If the law would allow it , sir .
ESCALUS : But the law will not allow it , Pompey ; nor it shall not be allowed in Vienna .
POMPEY : Does your worship mean to geld and splay all the youth of the city ?
ESCALUS : No , Pompey .
POMPEY : Truly , sir , in my poor opinion , they will to 't then . If your worship will take order for the drabs and the knaves , you need not to fear the bawds .
ESCALUS : There are pretty orders beginning , I can tell you : it is but heading and hanging .
POMPEY : If you head and hang all that offend that way but for ten year together , you 'll be glad to give out a commission for more heads : if this law hold in Vienna ten year , I 'll rent the fairest house in it after three-pence a bay : if you live to see this come to pass , say Pompey told you so .
ESCALUS : Thank you , good Pompey ; and , in requital of your prophecy , hark you : I advise you , let me not find you before me again upon any complaint whatsoever ; no , not for dwelling where you do : if I do , Pompey , I shall beat you to your tent , and prove a shrewd Caesar to you ; in plain dealing , Pompey , I shall have you whipt : so , for this time , Pompey , fare you well .
POMPEY : I thank your worship for your good counsel : Aside but I shall follow it as the flesh and fortune shall better determine . Whip me ? No , no ; let carman whip his jade : The valiant heart is not whipt out of his trade . Exit
ESCALUS : Come hither to me , Master Elbow ; come hither , Master constable . How long have you been in this place of constable ?
ELBOW : Seven year and a half , sir .
ESCALUS : I thought , by your readiness in the office , you had continued in it some time . You say , seven years together ?
ELBOW : And a half , sir .
ESCALUS : Alas , it hath been great pains to you . They do you wrong to put you so oft upon ' t : are there not men in your ward sufficient to serve it ?
ELBOW : Faith , sir , few of any wit in such matters : as they are chosen , they are glad to choose me for them ; I do it for some piece of money , and go through with all .
ESCALUS : Look you bring me in the names of some six or seven , the most sufficient of your parish .
ELBOW : To your worship 's house , sir ?
ESCALUS : To my house . Fare you well . Exit ELBOW What 's o 'clock , think you ?
Justice : Eleven , sir .
ESCALUS : I pray you home to dinner with me .
Justice : I humbly thank you .
ESCALUS : It grieves me for the death of Claudio ; But there 's no remedy .
Justice : Lord Angelo is severe .
