ANGELO : ' Tis so with me . Let us withdraw together , And we may soon our satisfaction have Touching that point .
ESCALUS : I 'll wait upon your honour . Enter LUCIO and two Gentlemen
LUCIO : If the duke with the other dukes come not to composition with the King of Hungary , why then all the dukes fall upon the king .
First Gentleman : Heaven grant us its peace , but not the King of Hungary 's !
Second Gentleman : Amen .
LUCIO : Thou concludest like the sanctimonious pirate , that went to sea with the Ten Commandments , but scraped one out of the table .
Second Gentleman : ' Thou shalt not steal ' ?
LUCIO : Ay , that he razed .
First Gentleman : Why , ' twas a commandment to command the captain and all the rest from their functions : they put forth to steal . There 's not a soldier of us all , that , in the thanksgiving before meat , do relish the petition well that prays for peace .
Second Gentleman : I never heard any soldier dislike it .
LUCIO : I believe thee ; for I think thou never wast where grace was said .
Second Gentleman : No ? a dozen times at least .
First Gentleman : What , in metre ?
LUCIO : In any proportion or in any language .
First Gentleman : I think , or in any religion .
LUCIO : Ay , why not ? Grace is grace , despite of all controversy : as , for example , thou thyself art a wicked villain , despite of all grace .
First Gentleman : Well , there went but a pair of shears between us .
LUCIO : I grant ; as there may between the lists and the velvet . Thou art the list .
First Gentleman : And thou the velvet : thou art good velvet ; thou 'rt a three-piled piece , I warrant thee : I had as lief be a list of an English kersey as be piled , as thou art piled , for a French velvet . Do I speak feelingly now ?
LUCIO : I think thou dost ; and , indeed , with most painful feeling of thy speech : I will , out of thine own confession , learn to begin thy health ; but , whilst I live , forget to drink after thee .
First Gentleman : I think I have done myself wrong , have I not ?
Second Gentleman : Yes , that thou hast , whether thou art tainted or free .
LUCIO : Behold , behold. where Madam Mitigation comes ! I have purchased as many diseases under her roof as come to--
Second Gentleman : To what , I pray ?
LUCIO : Judge .
Second Gentleman : To three thousand dolours a year .
First Gentleman : Ay , and more .
LUCIO : A French crown more .
First Gentleman : Thou art always figuring diseases in me ; but thou art full of error ; I am sound .
LUCIO : Nay , not as one would say , healthy ; but so sound as things that are hollow : thy bones are hollow ; impiety has made a feast of thee . Enter MISTRESS OVERDONE
First Gentleman : How now ! which of your hips has the most profound sciatica ?
MISTRESS OVERDONE : Well , well ; there 's one yonder arrested and carried to prison was worth five thousand of you all .
Second Gentleman : Who 's that , I pray thee ?
MISTRESS OVERDONE : Marry , sir , that 's Claudio , Signior Claudio .
First Gentleman : Claudio to prison ? ' tis not so .
MISTRESS OVERDONE : Nay , but I know ' tis so : I saw him arrested , saw him carried away ; and , which is more , within these three days his head to be chopped off .
LUCIO : But , after all this fooling , I would not have it so . Art thou sure of this ?
MISTRESS OVERDONE : I am too sure of it : and it is for getting Madam Julietta with child .
LUCIO : Believe me , this may be : he promised to meet me two hours since , and he was ever precise in promise-keeping .
