POMPEY : I hope , sir , your good worship will be my bail .
LUCIO : No , indeed , will I not , Pompey ; it is not the wear . I will pray , Pompey , to increase your bondage : If you take it not patiently , why , your mettle is the more . Adieu , trusty Pompey . ' Bless you , friar .
DUKE VINCENTIO : And you .
LUCIO : Does Bridget paint still , Pompey , ha ?
ELBOW : Come your ways , sir ; come .
POMPEY : You will not bail me , then , sir ?
LUCIO : Then , Pompey , nor now . What news abroad , friar ? what news ?
ELBOW : Come your ways , sir ; come .
LUCIO : Go to kennel , Pompey ; go . What news , friar , of the duke ?
DUKE VINCENTIO : I know none . Can you tell me of any ?
LUCIO : Some say he is with the Emperor of Russia ; other some , he is in Rome : but where is he , think you ?
DUKE VINCENTIO : I know not where ; but wheresoever , I wish him well .
LUCIO : It was a mad fantastical trick of him to steal from the state , and usurp the beggary he was never born to . Lord Angelo dukes it well in his absence ; he puts transgression to ' t .
DUKE VINCENTIO : He does well in ' t .
LUCIO : A little more lenity to lechery would do no harm in him : something too crabbed that way , friar .
DUKE VINCENTIO : It is too general a vice , and severity must cure it .
LUCIO : Yes , in good sooth , the vice is of a great kindred ; it is well allied : but it is impossible to extirp it quite , friar , till eating and drinking be put down . They say this Angelo was not made by man and woman after this downright way of creation : is it true , think you ?
DUKE VINCENTIO : How should he be made , then ?
LUCIO : Some report a sea-maid spawned him ; some , that he was begot between two stock-fishes . But it is certain that when he makes water his urine is congealed ice ; that I know to be true : and he is a motion generative ; that 's infallible .
DUKE VINCENTIO : You are pleasant , sir , and speak apace .
LUCIO : Why , what a ruthless thing is this in him , for the rebellion of a codpiece to take away the life of a man ! Would the duke that is absent have done this ? Ere he would have hanged a man for the getting a hundred bastards , he would have paid for the nursing a thousand : he had some feeling of the sport : he knew the service , and that instructed him to mercy .
DUKE VINCENTIO : I never heard the absent duke much detected for women ; he was not inclined that way .
LUCIO : O , sir , you are deceived .
DUKE VINCENTIO : ' Tis not possible .
LUCIO : Who , not the duke ? yes , your beggar of fifty ; and his use was to put a ducat in her clack-dish : the duke had crotchets in him . He would be drunk too ; that let me inform you .
DUKE VINCENTIO : You do him wrong , surely .
LUCIO : Sir , I was an inward of his . A shy fellow was the duke : and I believe I know the cause of his withdrawing .
DUKE VINCENTIO : What , I prithee , might be the cause ?
LUCIO : No , pardon ; ' tis a secret must be locked within the teeth and the lips : but this I can let you understand , the greater file of the subject held the duke to be wise .
DUKE VINCENTIO : Wise ! why , no question but he was .
LUCIO : A very superficial , ignorant , unweighing fellow .
