JULIA : Counsel , Lucetta ; gentle girl , assist me ; And even in kind love I do conjure thee , Who art the table wherein all my thoughts Are visibly character 'd and engraved , To lesson me and tell me some good mean How , with my honour , I may undertake A journey to my loving Proteus .
LUCETTA : Alas , the way is wearisome and long !
JULIA : A true-devoted pilgrim is not weary To measure kingdoms with his feeble steps ; Much less shall she that hath Love 's wings to fly , And when the flight is made to one so dear , Of such divine perfection , as Sir Proteus .
LUCETTA : Better forbear till Proteus make return .
JULIA : O , know 'st thou not his looks are my soul 's food ? Pity the dearth that I have pined in , By longing for that food so long a time . Didst thou but know the inly touch of love , Thou wouldst as soon go kindle fire with snow As seek to quench the fire of love with words .
LUCETTA : I do not seek to quench your love 's hot fire , But qualify the fire 's extreme rage , Lest it should burn above the bounds of reason .
JULIA : The more thou damm 'st it up , the more it burns . The current that with gentle murmur glides , Thou know 'st , being stopp 'd , impatiently doth rage ; But when his fair course is not hindered , He makes sweet music with the enamell 'ed stones , Giving a gentle kiss to every sedge He overtaketh in his pilgrimage , And so by many winding nooks he strays With willing sport to the wild ocean . Then let me go and hinder not my course I 'll be as patient as a gentle stream And make a pastime of each weary step , Till the last step have brought me to my love ; And there I 'll rest , as after much turmoil A blessed soul doth in Elysium .
LUCETTA : But in what habit will you go along ?
JULIA : Not like a woman ; for I would prevent The loose encounters of lascivious men : Gentle Lucetta , fit me with such weeds As may beseem some well-reputed page .
LUCETTA : Why , then , your ladyship must cut your hair .
JULIA : No , girl , I 'll knit it up in silken strings With twenty odd-conceited true-love knots . To be fantastic may become a youth Of greater time than I shall show to be .
LUCETTA : What fashion , madam shall I make your breeches ?
JULIA : That fits as well as ' Tell me , good my lord , What compass will you wear your farthingale ? ' Why even what fashion thou best likest , Lucetta .
LUCETTA : You must needs have them with a codpiece , madam .
JULIA : Out , out , Lucetta ! that would be ill-favour 'd .
LUCETTA : A round hose , madam , now 's not worth a pin , Unless you have a codpiece to stick pins on .
JULIA : Lucetta , as thou lovest me , let me have What thou thinkest meet and is most mannerly . But tell me , wench , how will the world repute me For undertaking so unstaid a journey ? I fear me , it will make me scandalized .
LUCETTA : If you think so , then stay at home and go not .
JULIA : Nay , that I will not .
LUCETTA : Then never dream on infamy , but go . If Proteus like your journey when you come , No matter who 's displeased when you are gone : I fear me , he will scarce be pleased withal .
JULIA : That is the least , Lucetta , of my fear : A thousand oaths , an ocean of his tears And instances of infinite of love Warrant me welcome to my Proteus .
LUCETTA : All these are servants to deceitful men .
