VALENTINE : I pray thee , Launce , an if thou seest my boy , Bid him make haste and meet me at the North-gate .
PROTEUS : Go , sirrah , find him out . Come , Valentine .
VALENTINE : O my dear Silvia ! Hapless Valentine !
LAUNCE : I am but a fool , look you ; and yet I have the wit to think my master is a kind of a knave : but that 's all one , if he be but one knave . He lives not now that knows me to be in love ; yet I am in love ; but a team of horse shall not pluck that from me ; nor who ' tis I love ; and yet ' tis a woman ; but what woman , I will not tell myself ; and yet ' tis a milkmaid ; yet ' tis not a maid , for she hath had gossips ; yet ' tis a maid , for she is her master 's maid , and serves for wages . She hath more qualities than a water-spaniel ; which is much in a bare Christian . Pulling out a paper Here is the cate-log of her condition . ' Imprimis : She can fetch and carry . ' Why , a horse can do no more : nay , a horse cannot fetch , but only carry ; therefore is she better than a jade . ' Item : She can milk ; ' look you , a sweet virtue in a maid with clean hands . Enter SPEED
SPEED : How now , Signior Launce ! what news with your mastership ?
LAUNCE : With my master 's ship ? why , it is at sea .
SPEED : Well , your old vice still ; mistake the word . What news , then , in your paper ?
LAUNCE : The blackest news that ever thou heardest .
SPEED : Why , man , how black ?
LAUNCE : Why , as black as ink .
SPEED : Let me read them .
LAUNCE : Fie on thee , jolt-head ! thou canst not read .
SPEED : Thou liest ; I can .
LAUNCE : I will try thee . Tell me this : who begot thee ?
SPEED : Marry , the son of my grandfather .
LAUNCE : O illiterate loiterer ! it was the son of thy grandmother : this proves that thou canst not read .
SPEED : Come , fool , come ; try me in thy paper .
LAUNCE : There ; and St. Nicholas be thy speed !
SPEED : ' Imprimis : She can milk . ' 
LAUNCE : Ay , that she can .
SPEED : ' Item : She brews good ale . ' 
LAUNCE : And thereof comes the proverb : ' Blessing of your heart , you brew good ale . ' 
SPEED : ' Item : She can sew . ' 
LAUNCE : That 's as much as to say , Can she so ?
SPEED : ' Item : She can knit . ' 
LAUNCE : What need a man care for a stock with a wench , when she can knit him a stock ?
SPEED : ' Item : She can wash and scour . ' 
LAUNCE : A special virtue : for then she need not be washed and scoured .
SPEED : ' Item : She can spin . ' 
LAUNCE : Then may I set the world on wheels , when she can spin for her living .
SPEED : ' Item : She hath many nameless virtues . ' 
LAUNCE : That 's as much as to say , bastard virtues ; that , indeed , know not their fathers and therefore have no names .
SPEED : ' Here follow her vices . ' 
LAUNCE : Close at the heels of her virtues .
SPEED : ' Item : She is not to be kissed fasting in respect of her breath . ' 
LAUNCE : Well , that fault may be mended with a breakfast . Read on .
SPEED : ' Item : She hath a sweet mouth . ' 
LAUNCE : That makes amends for her sour breath .
SPEED : ' Item : She doth talk in her sleep . ' 
LAUNCE : It 's no matter for that , so she sleep not in her talk .
