LUCETTA : Pray heaven he prove so , when you come to him !
JULIA : Now , as thou lovest me , do him not that wrong To bear a hard opinion of his truth : Only deserve my love by loving him ; And presently go with me to my chamber , To take a note of what I stand in need of , To furnish me upon my longing journey . All that is mine I leave at thy dispose , My goods , my lands , my reputation ; Only , in lieu thereof , dispatch me hence . Come , answer not , but to it presently ! I am impatient of my tarriance . Enter DUKE , THURIO , and PROTEUS
DUKE : Sir Thurio , give us leave , I pray , awhile ; We have some secrets to confer about . Exit THURIO Now , tell me , Proteus , what 's your will with me ?
PROTEUS : My gracious lord , that which I would discover The law of friendship bids me to conceal ; But when I call to mind your gracious favours Done to me , undeserving as I am , My duty pricks me on to utter that Which else no worldly good should draw from me . Know , worthy prince , Sir Valentine , my friend , This night intends to steal away your daughter : Myself am one made privy to the plot . I know you have determined to bestow her On Thurio , whom your gentle daughter hates ; And should she thus be stol 'n away from you , It would be much vexation to your age . Thus , for my duty 's sake , I rather chose To cross my friend in his intended drift Than , by concealing it , heap on your head A pack of sorrows which would press you down , Being unprevented , to your timeless grave .
DUKE : Proteus , I thank thee for thine honest care ; Which to requite , command me while I live . This love of theirs myself have often seen , Haply when they have judged me fast asleep , And oftentimes have purposed to forbid Sir Valentine her company and my court : But fearing lest my jealous aim might err And so unworthily disgrace the man , A rashness that I ever yet have shunn 'd , I gave him gentle looks , thereby to find That which thyself hast now disclosed to me . And , that thou mayst perceive my fear of this , Knowing that tender youth is soon suggested , I nightly lodge her in an upper tower , The key whereof myself have ever kept ; And thence she cannot be convey 'd away .
PROTEUS : Know , noble lord , they have devised a mean How he her chamber-window will ascend And with a corded ladder fetch her down ; For which the youthful lover now is gone And this way comes he with it presently ; Where , if it please you , you may intercept him . But , good my Lord , do it so cunningly That my discovery be not aimed at ; For love of you , not hate unto my friend , Hath made me publisher of this pretence .
DUKE : Upon mine honour , he shall never know That I had any light from thee of this .
PROTEUS : Adieu , my Lord ; Sir Valentine is coming . Exit Enter VALENTINE
DUKE : Sir Valentine , whither away so fast ?
VALENTINE : Please it your grace , there is a messenger That stays to bear my letters to my friends , And I am going to deliver them .
DUKE : Be they of much import ?
VALENTINE : The tenor of them doth but signify My health and happy being at your court .
DUKE : Nay then , no matter ; stay with me awhile ; I am to break with thee of some affairs That touch me near , wherein thou must be secret . ' Tis not unknown to thee that I have sought To match my friend Sir Thurio to my daughter .
