PROTEUS : Enough ; I read your fortune in your eye . Was this the idol that you worship so ?
VALENTINE : Even she ; and is she not a heavenly saint ?
PROTEUS : No ; but she is an earthly paragon .
VALENTINE : Call her divine .
PROTEUS : I will not flatter her .
VALENTINE : O , flatter me ; for love delights in praises .
PROTEUS : When I was sick , you gave me bitter pills , And I must minister the like to you .
VALENTINE : Then speak the truth by her ; if not divine , Yet let her be a principality , Sovereign to all the creatures on the earth .
PROTEUS : Except my mistress .
VALENTINE : Sweet , except not any ; Except thou wilt except against my love .
PROTEUS : Have I not reason to prefer mine own ?
VALENTINE : And I will help thee to prefer her too : She shall be dignified with this high honour-- To bear my lady 's train , lest the base earth Should from her vesture chance to steal a kiss And , of so great a favour growing proud , Disdain to root the summer-swelling flower And make rough winter everlastingly .
PROTEUS : Why , Valentine , what braggardism is this ?
VALENTINE : Pardon me , Proteus : all I can is nothing To her whose worth makes other worthies nothing ; She is alone .
PROTEUS : Then let her alone .
VALENTINE : Not for the world : why , man , she is mine own , And I as rich in having such a jewel As twenty seas , if all their sand were pearl , The water nectar and the rocks pure gold . Forgive me that I do not dream on thee , Because thou see 'st me dote upon my love . My foolish rival , that her father likes Only for his possessions are so huge , Is gone with her along , and I must after , For love , thou know 'st , is full of jealousy .
PROTEUS : But she loves you ?
VALENTINE : Ay , and we are betroth 'd : nay , more , our , marriage-hour , With all the cunning manner of our flight , Determined of ; how I must climb her window , The ladder made of cords , and all the means Plotted and ' greed on for my happiness . Good Proteus , go with me to my chamber , In these affairs to aid me with thy counsel .
PROTEUS : Go on before ; I shall inquire you forth : I must unto the road , to disembark Some necessaries that I needs must use , And then I 'll presently attend you .
VALENTINE : Will you make haste ?
PROTEUS : I will . Exit VALENTINE Even as one heat another heat expels , Or as one nail by strength drives out another , So the remembrance of my former love Is by a newer object quite forgotten . Is it mine , or Valentine 's praise , Her true perfection , or my false transgression , That makes me reasonless to reason thus ? She is fair ; and so is Julia that I love-- That I did love , for now my love is thaw 'd ; Which , like a waxen image , ' gainst a fire , Bears no impression of the thing it was . Methinks my zeal to Valentine is cold , And that I love him not as I was wont . O , but I love his lady too too much , And that 's the reason I love him so little . How shall I dote on her with more advice , That thus without advice begin to love her ! ' Tis but her picture I have yet beheld , And that hath dazzled my reason 's light ; But when I look on her perfections , There is no reason but I shall be blind . If I can cheque my erring love , I will ; If not , to compass her I 'll use my skill . Exit Enter SPEED and LAUNCE severally
SPEED : Launce ! by mine honesty , welcome to Milan !
