LAUNCE : O villain , that set this down among her vices ! To be slow in words is a woman 's only virtue : I pray thee , out with 't , and place it for her chief virtue .
SPEED : ' Item : She is proud . ' 
LAUNCE : Out with that too ; it was Eve 's legacy , and cannot be ta 'en from her .
SPEED : ' Item : She hath no teeth . ' 
LAUNCE : I care not for that neither , because I love crusts .
SPEED : ' Item : She is curst . ' 
LAUNCE : Well , the best is , she hath no teeth to bite .
SPEED : ' Item : She will often praise her liquor . ' 
LAUNCE : If her liquor be good , she shall : if she will not , I will ; for good things should be praised .
SPEED : ' Item : She is too liberal . ' 
LAUNCE : Of her tongue she cannot , for that 's writ down she is slow of ; of her purse she shall not , for that I 'll keep shut : now , of another thing she may , and that cannot I help . Well , proceed .
SPEED : ' Item : She hath more hair than wit , and more faults than hairs , and more wealth than faults . ' 
LAUNCE : Stop there ; I 'll have her : she was mine , and not mine , twice or thrice in that last article . Rehearse that once more .
SPEED : ' Item : She hath more hair than wit , ' --
LAUNCE : More hair than wit ? It may be ; I 'll prove it . The cover of the salt hides the salt , and therefore it is more than the salt ; the hair that covers the wit is more than the wit , for the greater hides the less . What 's next ?
SPEED : ' And more faults than hairs , ' --
LAUNCE : That 's monstrous : O , that that were out !
SPEED : ' And more wealth than faults . ' 
LAUNCE : Why , that word makes the faults gracious . Well , I 'll have her ; and if it be a match , as nothing is impossible , --
SPEED : What then ?
LAUNCE : Why , then will I tell thee--that thy master stays for thee at the North-gate .
SPEED : For me ?
LAUNCE : For thee ! ay , who art thou ? he hath stayed for a better man than thee .
SPEED : And must I go to him ?
LAUNCE : Thou must run to him , for thou hast stayed so long that going will scarce serve the turn .
SPEED : Why didst not tell me sooner ? pox of your love letters ! Exit
LAUNCE : Now will he be swinged for reading my letter ; an unmannerly slave , that will thrust himself into secrets ! I 'll after , to rejoice in the boy 's correction . Exit Enter DUKE and THURIO
DUKE : Sir Thurio , fear not but that she will love you , Now Valentine is banish 'd from her sight .
THURIO : Since his exile she hath despised me most , Forsworn my company and rail 'd at me , That I am desperate of obtaining her .
DUKE : This weak impress of love is as a figure Trenched in ice , which with an hour 's heat Dissolves to water and doth lose his form . A little time will melt her frozen thoughts And worthless Valentine shall be forgot . Enter PROTEUS How now , Sir Proteus ! Is your countryman According to our proclamation gone ?
PROTEUS : Gone , my good lord .
DUKE : My daughter takes his going grievously .
PROTEUS : A little time , my lord , will kill that grief .
DUKE : So I believe ; but Thurio thinks not so . Proteus , the good conceit I hold of thee-- For thou hast shown some sign of good desert-- Makes me the better to confer with thee .
PROTEUS : Longer than I prove loyal to your grace Let me not live to look upon your grace .
