PROTEUS : I grant , sweet love , that I did love a lady ; But she is dead .
JULIA : ' Twere false , if I should speak it ; For I am sure she is not buried .
SILVIA : Say that she be ; yet Valentine thy friend Survives ; to whom , thyself art witness , I am betroth 'd : and art thou not ashamed To wrong him with thy importunacy ?
PROTEUS : I likewise hear that Valentine is dead .
SILVIA : And so suppose am I ; for in his grave Assure thyself my love is buried .
PROTEUS : Sweet lady , let me rake it from the earth .
SILVIA : Go to thy lady 's grave and call hers thence , Or , at the least , in hers sepulchre thine .
JULIA : He heard not that .
PROTEUS : Madam , if your heart be so obdurate , Vouchsafe me yet your picture for my love , The picture that is hanging in your chamber ; To that I 'll speak , to that I 'll sigh and weep : For since the substance of your perfect self Is else devoted , I am but a shadow ; And to your shadow will I make true love .
JULIA : If ' twere a substance , you would , sure , deceive it , And make it but a shadow , as I am .
SILVIA : I am very loath to be your idol , sir ; But since your falsehood shall become you well To worship shadows and adore false shapes , Send to me in the morning and I 'll send it : And so , good rest .
PROTEUS : As wretches have o 'ernight That wait for execution in the morn .
JULIA : Host , will you go ?
Host : By my halidom , I was fast asleep .
JULIA : Pray you , where lies Sir Proteus ?
Host : Marry , at my house . Trust me , I think ' tis almost day .
JULIA : Not so ; but it hath been the longest night That e 'er I watch 'd and the most heaviest . Enter EGLAMOUR
EGLAMOUR : This is the hour that Madam Silvia Entreated me to call and know her mind : There 's some great matter she 'ld employ me in . Madam , madam ! Enter SILVIA above
SILVIA : Who calls ?
EGLAMOUR : Your servant and your friend ; One that attends your ladyship 's command .
SILVIA : Sir Eglamour , a thousand times good morrow .
EGLAMOUR : As many , worthy lady , to yourself : According to your ladyship 's impose , I am thus early come to know what service It is your pleasure to command me in .
SILVIA : O Eglamour , thou art a gentleman-- Think not I flatter , for I swear I do not-- Valiant , wise , remorseful , well accomplish 'd : Thou art not ignorant what dear good will I bear unto the banish 'd Valentine , Nor how my father would enforce me marry Vain Thurio , whom my very soul abhors . Thyself hast loved ; and I have heard thee say No grief did ever come so near thy heart As when thy lady and thy true love died , Upon whose grave thou vow 'dst pure chastity . Sir Eglamour , I would to Valentine , To Mantua , where I hear he makes abode ; And , for the ways are dangerous to pass , I do desire thy worthy company , Upon whose faith and honour I repose . Urge not my father 's anger , Eglamour , But think upon my grief , a lady 's grief , And on the justice of my flying hence , To keep me from a most unholy match , Which heaven and fortune still rewards with plagues . I do desire thee , even from a heart As full of sorrows as the sea of sands , To bear me company and go with me : If not , to hide what I have said to thee , That I may venture to depart alone .
