SILVIA : How tall was she ?
JULIA : About my stature ; for at Pentecost , When all our pageants of delight were play 'd , Our youth got me to play the woman 's part , And I was trimm 'd in Madam Julia 's gown , Which served me as fit , by all men 's judgments , As if the garment had been made for me : Therefore I know she is about my height . And at that time I made her weep agood , For I did play a lamentable part : Madam , ' twas Ariadne passioning For Theseus ' perjury and unjust flight ; Which I so lively acted with my tears That my poor mistress , moved therewithal , Wept bitterly ; and would I might be dead If I in thought felt not her very sorrow !
SILVIA : She is beholding to thee , gentle youth . Alas , poor lady , desolate and left ! I weep myself to think upon thy words . Here , youth , there is my purse ; I give thee this For thy sweet mistress ' sake , because thou lovest her . Farewell . Exit SILVIA , with attendants
JULIA : And she shall thank you for 't , if e 'er you know her . A virtuous gentlewoman , mild and beautiful I hope my master 's suit will be but cold , Since she respects my mistress ' love so much . Alas , how love can trifle with itself ! Here is her picture : let me see ; I think , If I had such a tire , this face of mine Were full as lovely as is this of hers : And yet the painter flatter 'd her a little , Unless I flatter with myself too much . Her hair is auburn , mine is perfect yellow : If that be all the difference in his love , I 'll get me such a colour 'd periwig . Her eyes are grey as glass , and so are mine : Ay , but her forehead 's low , and mine 's as high . What should it be that he respects in her But I can make respective in myself , If this fond Love were not a blinded god ? Come , shadow , come and take this shadow up , For ' tis thy rival . O thou senseless form , Thou shalt be worshipp 'd , kiss 'd , loved and adored ! And , were there sense in his idolatry , My substance should be statue in thy stead . I 'll use thee kindly for thy mistress ' sake , That used me so ; or else , by Jove I vow , I should have scratch 'd out your unseeing eyes To make my master out of love with thee ! Exit Enter EGLAMOUR
EGLAMOUR : The sun begins to gild the western sky ; And now it is about the very hour That Silvia , at Friar Patrick 's cell , should meet me . She will not fail , for lovers break not hours , Unless it be to come before their time ; So much they spur their expedition . See where she comes . Enter SILVIA Lady , a happy evening !
SILVIA : Amen , amen ! Go on , good Eglamour , Out at the postern by the abbey-wall : I fear I am attended by some spies .
EGLAMOUR : Fear not : the forest is not three leagues off ; If we recover that , we are sure enough . Enter THURIO , PROTEUS , and JULIA
THURIO : Sir Proteus , what says Silvia to my suit ?
PROTEUS : O , sir , I find her milder than she was ; And yet she takes exceptions at your person .
THURIO : What , that my leg is too long ?
PROTEUS : No ; that it is too little .
THURIO : I 'll wear a boot , to make it somewhat rounder .
JULIA : But love will not be spurr 'd to what it loathes .
THURIO : What says she to my face ?
PROTEUS : She says it is a fair one .
THURIO : Nay then , the wanton lies ; my face is black .
PROTEUS : But pearls are fair ; and the old saying is , Black men are pearls in beauteous ladies ' eyes .
