VALENTINE : How like a dream is this I see and hear ! Love , lend me patience to forbear awhile .
SILVIA : O miserable , unhappy that I am !
PROTEUS : Unhappy were you , madam , ere I came ; But by my coming I have made you happy .
SILVIA : By thy approach thou makest me most unhappy .
JULIA : And me , when he approacheth to your presence .
SILVIA : Had I been seized by a hungry lion , I would have been a breakfast to the beast , Rather than have false Proteus rescue me . O , Heaven be judge how I love Valentine , Whose life 's as tender to me as my soul ! And full as much , for more there cannot be , I do detest false perjured Proteus . Therefore be gone ; solicit me no more .
PROTEUS : What dangerous action , stood it next to death , Would I not undergo for one calm look ! O , ' tis the curse in love , and still approved , When women cannot love where they 're beloved !
SILVIA : When Proteus cannot love where he 's beloved . Read over Julia 's heart , thy first best love , For whose dear sake thou didst then rend thy faith Into a thousand oaths ; and all those oaths Descended into perjury , to love me . Thou hast no faith left now , unless thou 'dst two ; And that 's far worse than none ; better have none Than plural faith which is too much by one : Thou counterfeit to thy true friend !
PROTEUS : In love Who respects friend ?
SILVIA : All men but Proteus .
PROTEUS : Nay , if the gentle spirit of moving words Can no way change you to a milder form , I 'll woo you like a soldier , at arms ' end , And love you ' gainst the nature of love , --force ye .
SILVIA : O heaven !
PROTEUS : I 'll force thee yield to my desire .
VALENTINE : Ruffian , let go that rude uncivil touch , Thou friend of an ill fashion !
PROTEUS : Valentine !
VALENTINE : Thou common friend , that 's without faith or love , For such is a friend now ; treacherous man ! Thou hast beguiled my hopes ; nought but mine eye Could have persuaded me : now I dare not say I have one friend alive ; thou wouldst disprove me . Who should be trusted , when one 's own right hand Is perjured to the bosom ? Proteus , I am sorry I must never trust thee more , But count the world a stranger for thy sake . The private wound is deepest : O time most accurst , ' Mongst all foes that a friend should be the worst !
PROTEUS : My shame and guilt confounds me . Forgive me , Valentine : if hearty sorrow Be a sufficient ransom for offence , I tender ' t here ; I do as truly suffer As e 'er I did commit .
VALENTINE : Then I am paid ; And once again I do receive thee honest . Who by repentance is not satisfied Is nor of heaven nor earth , for these are pleased . By penitence the Eternal 's wrath 's appeased : And , that my love may appear plain and free , All that was mine in Silvia I give thee .
JULIA : O me unhappy ! Swoons
PROTEUS : Look to the boy .
VALENTINE : Why , boy ! why , wag ! how now ! what 's the matter ? Look up ; speak .
JULIA : O good sir , my master charged me to deliver a ring to Madam Silvia , which , out of my neglect , was never done .
PROTEUS : Where is that ring , boy ?
JULIA : Here ' tis ; this is it .
PROTEUS : How ! let me see : Why , this is the ring I gave to Julia .
JULIA : O , cry you mercy , sir , I have mistook : This is the ring you sent to Silvia .
PROTEUS : But how camest thou by this ring ? At my depart I gave this unto Julia .
