JULIA : It seems you loved not her , to leave her token . She is dead , belike ?
PROTEUS : Not so ; I think she lives .
JULIA : Alas !
PROTEUS : Why dost thou cry ' alas ' ?
JULIA : I cannot choose But pity her .
PROTEUS : Wherefore shouldst thou pity her ?
JULIA : Because methinks that she loved you as well As you do love your lady Silvia : She dreams of him that has forgot her love ; You dote on her that cares not for your love . ' Tis pity love should be so contrary ; And thinking of it makes me cry ' alas ! '
PROTEUS : Well , give her that ring and therewithal This letter . That 's her chamber . Tell my lady I claim the promise for her heavenly picture . Your message done , hie home unto my chamber , Where thou shalt find me , sad and solitary . Exit
JULIA : How many women would do such a message ? Alas , poor Proteus ! thou hast entertain 'd A fox to be the shepherd of thy lambs . Alas , poor fool ! why do I pity him That with his very heart despiseth me ? Because he loves her , he despiseth me ; Because I love him I must pity him . This ring I gave him when he parted from me , To bind him to remember my good will ; And now am I , unhappy messenger , To plead for that which I would not obtain , To carry that which I would have refused , To praise his faith which I would have dispraised . I am my master 's true-confirmed love ; But cannot be true servant to my master , Unless I prove false traitor to myself . Yet will I woo for him , but yet so coldly As , heaven it knows , I would not have him speed . Enter SILVIA , attended Gentlewoman , good day ! I pray you , be my mean To bring me where to speak with Madam Silvia .
SILVIA : What would you with her , if that I be she ?
JULIA : If you be she , I do entreat your patience To hear me speak the message I am sent on .
SILVIA : From whom ?
JULIA : From my master , Sir Proteus , madam .
SILVIA : O , he sends you for a picture .
JULIA : Ay , madam .
SILVIA : Ursula , bring my picture here . Go give your master this : tell him from me , One Julia , that his changing thoughts forget , Would better fit his chamber than this shadow .
JULIA : Madam , please you peruse this letter.-- Pardon me , madam ; I have unadvised Deliver 'd you a paper that I should not : This is the letter to your ladyship .
SILVIA : I pray thee , let me look on that again .
JULIA : It may not be ; good madam , pardon me .
SILVIA : There , hold ! I will not look upon your master 's lines : I know they are stuff 'd with protestations And full of new-found oaths ; which he will break As easily as I do tear his paper .
JULIA : Madam , he sends your ladyship this ring .
SILVIA : The more shame for him that he sends it me ; For I have heard him say a thousand times His Julia gave it him at his departure . Though his false finger have profaned the ring , Mine shall not do his Julia so much wrong .
JULIA : She thanks you .
SILVIA : What say 'st thou ?
JULIA : I thank you , madam , that you tender her . Poor gentlewoman ! my master wrongs her much .
SILVIA : Dost thou know her ?
JULIA : Almost as well as I do know myself : To think upon her woes I do protest That I have wept a hundred several times .
SILVIA : Belike she thinks that Proteus hath forsook her .
JULIA : I think she doth ; and that 's her cause of sorrow .
SILVIA : Is she not passing fair ?
