VALENTINE : No , believe me .
SPEED : No believing you , indeed , sir . But did you perceive her earnest ?
VALENTINE : She gave me none , except an angry word .
SPEED : Why , she hath given you a letter .
VALENTINE : That 's the letter I writ to her friend .
SPEED : And that letter hath she delivered , and there an end .
VALENTINE : I would it were no worse .
SPEED : I 'll warrant you , ' tis as well : For often have you writ to her , and she , in modesty , Or else for want of idle time , could not again reply ; Or fearing else some messenger that might her mind discover , Herself hath taught her love himself to write unto her lover . All this I speak in print , for in print I found it . Why muse you , sir ? ' tis dinner-time .
VALENTINE : I have dined .
SPEED : Ay , but hearken , sir ; though the chameleon Love can feed on the air , I am one that am nourished by my victuals , and would fain have meat . O , be not like your mistress ; be moved , be moved . Enter PROTEUS and JULIA
PROTEUS : Have patience , gentle Julia .
JULIA : I must , where is no remedy .
PROTEUS : When possibly I can , I will return .
JULIA : If you turn not , you will return the sooner . Keep this remembrance for thy Julia 's sake . Giving a ring
PROTEUS : Why then , we 'll make exchange ; here , take you this .
JULIA : And seal the bargain with a holy kiss .
PROTEUS : Here is my hand for my true constancy ; And when that hour o 'erslips me in the day Wherein I sigh not , Julia , for thy sake , The next ensuing hour some foul mischance Torment me for my love 's forgetfulness ! My father stays my coming ; answer not ; The tide is now : nay , not thy tide of tears ; That tide will stay me longer than I should . Julia , farewell ! Exit JULIA What , gone without a word ? Ay , so true love should do : it cannot speak ; For truth hath better deeds than words to grace it . Enter PANTHINO
PANTHINO : Sir Proteus , you are stay 'd for .
PROTEUS : Go ; I come , I come . Alas ! this parting strikes poor lovers dumb . Enter LAUNCE , leading a dog
