PROTEUS : How ! Julia !
JULIA : Behold her that gave aim to all thy oaths , And entertain 'd ' em deeply in her heart . How oft hast thou with perjury cleft the root ! O Proteus , let this habit make thee blush ! Be thou ashamed that I have took upon me Such an immodest raiment , if shame live In a disguise of love : It is the lesser blot , modesty finds , Women to change their shapes than men their minds .
PROTEUS : Than men their minds ! ' tis true . O heaven ! were man But constant , he were perfect . That one error Fills him with faults ; makes him run through all the sins : Inconstancy falls off ere it begins . What is in Silvia 's face , but I may spy More fresh in Julia 's with a constant eye ?
VALENTINE : Come , come , a hand from either : Let me be blest to make this happy close ; ' Twere pity two such friends should be long foes .
PROTEUS : Bear witness , Heaven , I have my wish for ever .
JULIA : And I mine . Enter Outlaws , with DUKE and THURIO
Outlaws : A prize , a prize , a prize !
VALENTINE : Forbear , forbear , I say ! it is my lord the duke . Your grace is welcome to a man disgraced , Banished Valentine .
DUKE : Sir Valentine !
THURIO : Yonder is Silvia ; and Silvia 's mine .
VALENTINE : Thurio , give back , or else embrace thy death ; Come not within the measure of my wrath ; Do not name Silvia thine ; if once again , Verona shall not hold thee . Here she stands ; Take but possession of her with a touch : I dare thee but to breathe upon my love .
THURIO : Sir Valentine , I care not for her , I ; I hold him but a fool that will endanger His body for a girl that loves him not : I claim her not , and therefore she is thine .
DUKE : The more degenerate and base art thou , To make such means for her as thou hast done And leave her on such slight conditions . Now , by the honour of my ancestry , I do applaud thy spirit , Valentine , And think thee worthy of an empress ' love : Know then , I here forget all former griefs , Cancel all grudge , repeal thee home again , Plead a new state in thy unrivall 'd merit , To which I thus subscribe : Sir Valentine , Thou art a gentleman and well derived ; Take thou thy Silvia , for thou hast deserved her .
VALENTINE : I thank your grace ; the gift hath made me happy . I now beseech you , for your daughter 's sake , To grant one boom that I shall ask of you .
DUKE : I grant it , for thine own , whate 'er it be .
VALENTINE : These banish 'd men that I have kept withal Are men endued with worthy qualities : Forgive them what they have committed here And let them be recall 'd from their exile : They are reformed , civil , full of good And fit for great employment , worthy lord .
DUKE : Thou hast prevail 'd ; I pardon them and thee : Dispose of them as thou know 'st their deserts . Come , let us go : we will include all jars With triumphs , mirth and rare solemnity .
VALENTINE : And , as we walk along , I dare be bold With our discourse to make your grace to smile . What think you of this page , my lord ?
DUKE : I think the boy hath grace in him ; he blushes .
VALENTINE : I warrant you , my lord , more grace than boy .
DUKE : What mean you by that saying ?
