VALENTINE : Cease to persuade , my loving Proteus : Home-keeping youth have ever homely wits . Were 't not affection chains thy tender days To the sweet glances of thy honour 'd love , I rather would entreat thy company To see the wonders of the world abroad , Than , living dully sluggardized at home , Wear out thy youth with shapeless idleness . But since thou lovest , love still and thrive therein , Even as I would when I to love begin .
PROTEUS : Wilt thou be gone ? Sweet Valentine , adieu ! Think on thy Proteus , when thou haply seest Some rare note-worthy object in thy travel : Wish me partaker in thy happiness When thou dost meet good hap ; and in thy danger , If ever danger do environ thee , Commend thy grievance to my holy prayers , For I will be thy beadsman , Valentine .
VALENTINE : And on a love-book pray for my success ?
PROTEUS : Upon some book I love I 'll pray for thee .
VALENTINE : That 's on some shallow story of deep love : How young Leander cross 'd the Hellespont .
PROTEUS : That 's a deep story of a deeper love : For he was more than over shoes in love .
VALENTINE : ' Tis true ; for you are over boots in love , And yet you never swum the Hellespont .
PROTEUS : Over the boots ? nay , give me not the boots .
VALENTINE : No , I will not , for it boots thee not .
PROTEUS : What ?
VALENTINE : To be in love , where scorn is bought with groans ; Coy looks with heart-sore sighs ; one fading moment 's mirth With twenty watchful , weary , tedious nights : If haply won , perhaps a hapless gain ; If lost , why then a grievous labour won ; However , but a folly bought with wit , Or else a wit by folly vanquished .
PROTEUS : So , by your circumstance , you call me fool .
VALENTINE : So , by your circumstance , I fear you 'll prove .
PROTEUS : ' Tis love you cavil at : I am not Love .
VALENTINE : Love is your master , for he masters you : And he that is so yoked by a fool , Methinks , should not be chronicled for wise .
PROTEUS : Yet writers say , as in the sweetest bud The eating canker dwells , so eating love Inhabits in the finest wits of all .
VALENTINE : And writers say , as the most forward bud Is eaten by the canker ere it blow , Even so by love the young and tender wit Is turn 'd to folly , blasting in the bud , Losing his verdure even in the prime And all the fair effects of future hopes . But wherefore waste I time to counsel thee , That art a votary to fond desire ? Once more adieu ! my father at the road Expects my coming , there to see me shipp 'd .
PROTEUS : And thither will I bring thee , Valentine .
VALENTINE : Sweet Proteus , no ; now let us take our leave . To Milan let me hear from thee by letters Of thy success in love , and what news else Betideth here in absence of thy friend ; And likewise will visit thee with mine .
PROTEUS : All happiness bechance to thee in Milan !
VALENTINE : As much to you at home ! and so , farewell . Exit
PROTEUS : He after honour hunts , I after love : He leaves his friends to dignify them more , I leave myself , my friends and all , for love . Thou , Julia , thou hast metamorphosed me , Made me neglect my studies , lose my time , War with good counsel , set the world at nought ; Made wit with musing weak , heart sick with thought . Enter SPEED
SPEED : Sir Proteus , save you ! Saw you my master ?
PROTEUS : But now he parted hence , to embark for Milan .
SPEED : Twenty to one then he is shipp 'd already , And I have play 'd the sheep in losing him .
