LUCETTA : To take a paper up that I let fall .
JULIA : And is that paper nothing ?
LUCETTA : Nothing concerning me .
JULIA : Then let it lie for those that it concerns .
LUCETTA : Madam , it will not lie where it concerns Unless it have a false interpeter .
JULIA : Some love of yours hath writ to you in rhyme .
LUCETTA : That I might sing it , madam , to a tune . Give me a note : your ladyship can set .
JULIA : As little by such toys as may be possible . Best sing it to the tune of ' Light o ' love . ' 
LUCETTA : It is too heavy for so light a tune .
JULIA : Heavy ! belike it hath some burden then ?
LUCETTA : Ay , and melodious were it , would you sing it .
JULIA : And why not you ?
LUCETTA : I cannot reach so high .
JULIA : Let 's see your song . How now , minion !
LUCETTA : Keep tune there still , so you will sing it out : And yet methinks I do not like this tune .
JULIA : You do not ?
LUCETTA : No , madam ; it is too sharp .
JULIA : You , minion , are too saucy .
LUCETTA : Nay , now you are too flat And mar the concord with too harsh a descant : There wanteth but a mean to fill your song .
JULIA : The mean is drown 'd with your unruly bass .
LUCETTA : Indeed , I bid the base for Proteus .
JULIA : This babble shall not henceforth trouble me . Here is a coil with protestation ! Tears the letter Go get you gone , and let the papers lie : You would be fingering them , to anger me .
LUCETTA : She makes it strange ; but she would be best pleased To be so anger 'd with another letter . Exit
JULIA : Nay , would I were so anger 'd with the same ! O hateful hands , to tear such loving words ! Injurious wasps , to feed on such sweet honey And kill the bees that yield it with your stings ! I 'll kiss each several paper for amends . Look , here is writ ' kind Julia . ' Unkind Julia ! As in revenge of thy ingratitude , I throw thy name against the bruising stones , Trampling contemptuously on thy disdain . And here is writ ' love-wounded Proteus . ' Poor wounded name ! my bosom as a bed Shall lodge thee till thy wound be thoroughly heal 'd ; And thus I search it with a sovereign kiss . But twice or thrice was ' Proteus ' written down . Be calm , good wind , blow not a word away Till I have found each letter in the letter , Except mine own name : that some whirlwind bear Unto a ragged fearful-hanging rock And throw it thence into the raging sea ! Lo , here in one line is his name twice writ , ' Poor forlorn Proteus , passionate Proteus , To the sweet Julia : ' that I 'll tear away . And yet I will not , sith so prettily He couples it to his complaining names . Thus will I fold them one on another : Now kiss , embrace , contend , do what you will . Re-enter LUCETTA
LUCETTA : Madam , Dinner is ready , and your father stays .
JULIA : Well , let us go .
LUCETTA : What , shall these papers lie like tell-tales here ?
JULIA : If you respect them , best to take them up .
LUCETTA : Nay , I was taken up for laying them down : Yet here they shall not lie , for catching cold .
JULIA : I see you have a month 's mind to them .
LUCETTA : Ay , madam , you may say what sights you see ; I see things too , although you judge I wink .
JULIA : Come , come ; will 't please you go ? Enter ANTONIO and PANTHINO
ANTONIO : Tell me , Panthino , what sad talk was that Wherewith my brother held you in the cloister ?
PANTHINO : ' Twas of his nephew Proteus , your son .
