DUKE : No , trust me ; she is peevish , sullen , froward , Proud , disobedient , stubborn , lacking duty , Neither regarding that she is my child Nor fearing me as if I were her father ; And , may I say to thee , this pride of hers , Upon advice , hath drawn my love from her ; And , where I thought the remnant of mine age Should have been cherish 'd by her child-like duty , I now am full resolved to take a wife And turn her out to who will take her in : Then let her beauty be her wedding-dower ; For me and my possessions she esteems not .
VALENTINE : What would your Grace have me to do in this ?
DUKE : There is a lady in Verona here Whom I affect ; but she is nice and coy And nought esteems my aged eloquence : Now therefore would I have thee to my tutor-- For long agone I have forgot to court ; Besides , the fashion of the time is changed-- How and which way I may bestow myself To be regarded in her sun-bright eye .
VALENTINE : Win her with gifts , if she respect not words : Dumb jewels often in their silent kind More than quick words do move a woman 's mind .
DUKE : But she did scorn a present that I sent her .
VALENTINE : A woman sometimes scorns what best contents her . Send her another ; never give her o 'er ; For scorn at first makes after-love the more . If she do frown , ' tis not in hate of you , But rather to beget more love in you : If she do chide , ' tis not to have you gone ; For why , the fools are mad , if left alone . Take no repulse , whatever she doth say ; For ' get you gone , ' she doth not mean ' away ! ' Flatter and praise , commend , extol their graces ; Though ne 'er so black , say they have angels ' faces . That man that hath a tongue , I say , is no man , If with his tongue he cannot win a woman .
DUKE : But she I mean is promised by her friends Unto a youthful gentleman of worth , And kept severely from resort of men , That no man hath access by day to her .
VALENTINE : Why , then , I would resort to her by night .
DUKE : Ay , but the doors be lock 'd and keys kept safe , That no man hath recourse to her by night .
VALENTINE : What lets but one may enter at her window ?
DUKE : Her chamber is aloft , far from the ground , And built so shelving that one cannot climb it Without apparent hazard of his life .
VALENTINE : Why then , a ladder quaintly made of cords , To cast up , with a pair of anchoring hooks , Would serve to scale another Hero 's tower , So bold Leander would adventure it .
DUKE : Now , as thou art a gentleman of blood , Advise me where I may have such a ladder .
VALENTINE : When would you use it ? pray , sir , tell me that .
DUKE : This very night ; for Love is like a child , That longs for every thing that he can come by .
VALENTINE : By seven o 'clock I 'll get you such a ladder .
DUKE : But , hark thee ; I will go to her alone : How shall I best convey the ladder thither ?
VALENTINE : It will be light , my lord , that you may bear it Under a cloak that is of any length .
DUKE : A cloak as long as thine will serve the turn ?
VALENTINE : Ay , my good lord .
DUKE : Then let me see thy cloak : I 'll get me one of such another length .
VALENTINE : Why , any cloak will serve the turn , my lord .
