THURIO : How now , Sir Proteus , are you crept before us ?
PROTEUS : Ay , gentle Thurio : for you know that love Will creep in service where it cannot go .
THURIO : Ay , but I hope , sir , that you love not here .
PROTEUS : Sir , but I do ; or else I would be hence .
THURIO : Who ? Silvia ?
PROTEUS : Ay , Silvia ; for your sake .
THURIO : I thank you for your own . Now , gentlemen , Let 's tune , and to it lustily awhile . Enter , at a distance , Host , and JULIA in boy 's clothes
Host : Now , my young guest , methinks you 're allycholly : I pray you , why is it ?
JULIA : Marry , mine host , because I cannot be merry .
Host : Come , we 'll have you merry : I 'll bring you where you shall hear music and see the gentleman that you asked for .
JULIA : But shall I hear him speak ?
Host : Ay , that you shall .
JULIA : That will be music . Music plays
Host : Hark , hark !
JULIA : Is he among these ?
Host : Ay : but , peace ! let 's hear ' em . SONG . Who is Silvia ? what is she , That all our swains commend her ? Holy , fair and wise is she ; The heaven such grace did lend her , That she might admired be . Is she kind as she is fair ? For beauty lives with kindness . Love doth to her eyes repair , To help him of his blindness , And , being help 'd , inhabits there . Then to Silvia let us sing , That Silvia is excelling ; She excels each mortal thing Upon the dull earth dwelling : To her let us garlands bring .
Host : How now ! are you sadder than you were before ? How do you , man ? the music likes you not .
JULIA : You mistake ; the musician likes me not .
Host : Why , my pretty youth ?
JULIA : He plays false , father .
Host : How ? out of tune on the strings ?
JULIA : Not so ; but yet so false that he grieves my very heart-strings .
Host : You have a quick ear .
JULIA : Ay , I would I were deaf ; it makes me have a slow heart .
Host : I perceive you delight not in music .
JULIA : Not a whit , when it jars so .
Host : Hark , what fine change is in the music !
JULIA : Ay , that change is the spite .
Host : You would have them always play but one thing ?
JULIA : I would always have one play but one thing . But , host , doth this Sir Proteus that we talk on Often resort unto this gentlewoman ?
Host : I tell you what Launce , his man , told me : he loved her out of all nick .
JULIA : Where is Launce ?
Host : Gone to seek his dog ; which tomorrow , by his master 's command , he must carry for a present to his lady .
JULIA : Peace ! stand aside : the company parts .
PROTEUS : Sir Thurio , fear not you : I will so plead That you shall say my cunning drift excels .
THURIO : Where meet we ?
PROTEUS : At Saint Gregory 's well .
THURIO : Farewell . Enter SILVIA above
PROTEUS : Madam , good even to your ladyship .
SILVIA : I thank you for your music , gentlemen . Who is that that spake ?
PROTEUS : One , lady , if you knew his pure heart 's truth , You would quickly learn to know him by his voice .
SILVIA : Sir Proteus , as I take it .
PROTEUS : Sir Proteus , gentle lady , and your servant .
SILVIA : What 's your will ?
PROTEUS : That I may compass yours .
