SPEED : You conclude that my master is a shepherd , then , and I a sheep ?
PROTEUS : I do .
SPEED : Why then , my horns are his horns , whether I wake or sleep .
PROTEUS : A silly answer and fitting well a sheep .
SPEED : This proves me still a sheep .
PROTEUS : True ; and thy master a shepherd .
SPEED : Nay , that I can deny by a circumstance .
PROTEUS : It shall go hard but I 'll prove it by another .
SPEED : The shepherd seeks the sheep , and not the sheep the shepherd ; but I seek my master , and my master seeks not me : therefore I am no sheep .
PROTEUS : The sheep for fodder follow the shepherd ; the shepherd for food follows not the sheep : thou for wages followest thy master ; thy master for wages follows not thee : therefore thou art a sheep .
SPEED : Such another proof will make me cry ' baa . ' 
PROTEUS : But , dost thou hear ? gavest thou my letter to Julia ?
SPEED : Ay sir : I , a lost mutton , gave your letter to her , a laced mutton , and she , a laced mutton , gave me , a lost mutton , nothing for my labour .
PROTEUS : Here 's too small a pasture for such store of muttons .
SPEED : If the ground be overcharged , you were best stick her .
PROTEUS : Nay : in that you are astray , ' twere best pound you .
SPEED : Nay , sir , less than a pound shall serve me for carrying your letter .
PROTEUS : You mistake ; I mean the pound , --a pinfold .
SPEED : From a pound to a pin ? fold it over and over , ' Tis threefold too little for carrying a letter to your lover .
PROTEUS : But what said she ?
SPEED : Ay .
PROTEUS : Nod--Ay--why , that 's noddy .
SPEED : You mistook , sir ; I say , she did nod : and you ask me if she did nod ; and I say , ' Ay . ' 
PROTEUS : And that set together is noddy .
SPEED : Now you have taken the pains to set it together , take it for your pains .
PROTEUS : No , no ; you shall have it for bearing the letter .
SPEED : Well , I perceive I must be fain to bear with you .
PROTEUS : Why sir , how do you bear with me ?
SPEED : Marry , sir , the letter , very orderly ; having nothing but the word ' noddy ' for my pains .
PROTEUS : Beshrew me , but you have a quick wit .
SPEED : And yet it cannot overtake your slow purse .
PROTEUS : Come come , open the matter in brief : what said she ?
SPEED : Open your purse , that the money and the matter may be both at once delivered .
PROTEUS : Well , sir , here is for your pains . What said she ?
SPEED : Truly , sir , I think you 'll hardly win her .
PROTEUS : Why , couldst thou perceive so much from her ?
SPEED : Sir , I could perceive nothing at all from her ; no , not so much as a ducat for delivering your letter : and being so hard to me that brought your mind , I fear she 'll prove as hard to you in telling your mind . Give her no token but stones ; for she 's as hard as steel .
PROTEUS : What said she ? nothing ?
SPEED : No , not so much as ' Take this for thy pains . ' To testify your bounty , I thank you , you have testerned me ; in requital whereof , henceforth carry your letters yourself : and so , sir , I 'll commend you to my master .
