DUKE : Hath he not a son ?
VALENTINE : Ay , my good lord ; a son that well deserves The honour and regard of such a father .
DUKE : You know him well ?
VALENTINE : I know him as myself ; for from our infancy We have conversed and spent our hours together : And though myself have been an idle truant , Omitting the sweet benefit of time To clothe mine age with angel-like perfection , Yet hath Sir Proteus , for that 's his name , Made use and fair advantage of his days ; His years but young , but his experience old ; His head unmellow 'd , but his judgment ripe ; And , in a word , for far behind his worth Comes all the praises that I now bestow , He is complete in feature and in mind With all good grace to grace a gentleman .
DUKE : Beshrew me , sir , but if he make this good , He is as worthy for an empress ' love As meet to be an emperor 's counsellor . Well , sir , this gentleman is come to me , With commendation from great potentates ; And here he means to spend his time awhile : I think ' tis no unwelcome news to you .
VALENTINE : Should I have wish 'd a thing , it had been he .
DUKE : Welcome him then according to his worth . Silvia , I speak to you , and you , Sir Thurio ; For Valentine , I need not cite him to it : I will send him hither to you presently . Exit
VALENTINE : This is the gentleman I told your ladyship Had come along with me , but that his mistress Did hold his eyes lock 'd in her crystal looks .
SILVIA : Belike that now she hath enfranchised them Upon some other pawn for fealty .
VALENTINE : Nay , sure , I think she holds them prisoners still .
SILVIA : Nay , then he should be blind ; and , being blind How could he see his way to seek out you ?
VALENTINE : Why , lady , Love hath twenty pair of eyes .
THURIO : They say that Love hath not an eye at all .
VALENTINE : To see such lovers , Thurio , as yourself : Upon a homely object Love can wink .
SILVIA : Have done , have done ; here comes the gentleman . Exit THURIO Enter PROTEUS
VALENTINE : Welcome , dear Proteus ! Mistress , I beseech you , Confirm his welcome with some special favour .
SILVIA : His worth is warrant for his welcome hither , If this be he you oft have wish 'd to hear from .
VALENTINE : Mistress , it is : sweet lady , entertain him To be my fellow-servant to your ladyship .
SILVIA : Too low a mistress for so high a servant .
PROTEUS : Not so , sweet lady : but too mean a servant To have a look of such a worthy mistress .
VALENTINE : Leave off discourse of disability : Sweet lady , entertain him for your servant .
PROTEUS : My duty will I boast of ; nothing else .
SILVIA : And duty never yet did want his meed : Servant , you are welcome to a worthless mistress .
PROTEUS : I 'll die on him that says so but yourself .
SILVIA : That you are welcome ?
PROTEUS : That you are worthless . Re-enter THURIO
THURIO : Madam , my lord your father would speak with you .
SILVIA : I wait upon his pleasure . Come , Sir Thurio , Go with me . Once more , new servant , welcome : I 'll leave you to confer of home affairs ; When you have done , we look to hear from you .
PROTEUS : We 'll both attend upon your ladyship .
VALENTINE : Now , tell me , how do all from whence you came ?
PROTEUS : Your friends are well and have them much commended .
VALENTINE : And how do yours ?
PROTEUS : I left them all in health .
VALENTINE : How does your lady ? and how thrives your love ?
PROTEUS : My tales of love were wont to weary you ; I know you joy not in a love discourse .
