THURIO : How likes she my discourse ?
PROTEUS : Ill , when you talk of war .
THURIO : But well , when I discourse of love and peace ?
JULIA : But better , indeed , when you hold your peace .
THURIO : What says she to my valour ?
PROTEUS : O , sir , she makes no doubt of that .
JULIA : She needs not , when she knows it cowardice .
THURIO : What says she to my birth ?
PROTEUS : That you are well derived .
JULIA : True ; from a gentleman to a fool .
THURIO : Considers she my possessions ?
PROTEUS : O , ay ; and pities them .
THURIO : Wherefore ?
JULIA : That such an ass should owe them .
PROTEUS : That they are out by lease .
JULIA : Here comes the duke . Enter DUKE
DUKE : How now , Sir Proteus ! how now , Thurio ! Which of you saw Sir Eglamour of late ?
THURIO : Not I.
PROTEUS : Nor I.
DUKE : Saw you my daughter ?
PROTEUS : Neither .
DUKE : Why then , She 's fled unto that peasant Valentine ; And Eglamour is in her company . ' Tis true ; for Friar Laurence met them both , As he in penance wander 'd through the forest ; Him he knew well , and guess 'd that it was she , But , being mask 'd , he was not sure of it ; Besides , she did intend confession At Patrick 's cell this even ; and there she was not ; These likelihoods confirm her flight from hence . Therefore , I pray you , stand not to discourse , But mount you presently and meet with me Upon the rising of the mountain-foot That leads towards Mantua , whither they are fled : Dispatch , sweet gentlemen , and follow me . Exit
THURIO : Why , this it is to be a peevish girl , That flies her fortune when it follows her . I 'll after , more to be revenged on Eglamour Than for the love of reckless Silvia . Exit
PROTEUS : And I will follow , more for Silvia 's love Than hate of Eglamour that goes with her . Exit
JULIA : And I will follow , more to cross that love Than hate for Silvia that is gone for love . Exit Enter Outlaws with SILVIA
First Outlaw : Come , come , Be patient ; we must bring you to our captain .
SILVIA : A thousand more mischances than this one Have learn 'd me how to brook this patiently .
Second Outlaw : Come , bring her away .
First Outlaw : Where is the gentleman that was with her ?
Third Outlaw : Being nimble-footed , he hath outrun us , But Moyses and Valerius follow him . Go thou with her to the west end of the wood ; There is our captain : we 'll follow him that 's fled ; The thicket is beset ; he cannot ' scape .
First Outlaw : Come , I must bring you to our captain 's cave : Fear not ; he bears an honourable mind , And will not use a woman lawlessly .
SILVIA : O Valentine , this I endure for thee ! Enter VALENTINE
VALENTINE : How use doth breed a habit in a man ! This shadowy desert , unfrequented woods , I better brook than flourishing peopled towns : Here can I sit alone , unseen of any , And to the nightingale 's complaining notes Tune my distresses and record my woes . O thou that dost inhabit in my breast , Leave not the mansion so long tenantless , Lest , growing ruinous , the building fall And leave no memory of what it was ! Repair me with thy presence , Silvia ; Thou gentle nymph , cherish thy forlorn swain ! What halloing and what stir is this to-day ? These are my mates , that make their wills their law , Have some unhappy passenger in chase . They love me well ; yet I have much to do To keep them from uncivil outrages . Withdraw thee , Valentine : who 's this comes here ? Enter PROTEUS , SILVIA , and JULIA
