SILVIA : This evening coming .
EGLAMOUR : Where shall I meet you ?
SILVIA : At Friar Patrick 's cell , Where I intend holy confession .
EGLAMOUR : I will not fail your ladyship . Good morrow , gentle lady .
SILVIA : Good morrow , kind Sir Eglamour . Enter LAUNCE , with his his Dog
LAUNCE : When a man 's servant shall play the cur with him , look you , it goes hard : one that I brought up of a puppy ; one that I saved from drowning , when three or four of his blind brothers and sisters went to it . I have taught him , even as one would say precisely , ' thus I would teach a dog . ' I was sent to deliver him as a present to Mistress Silvia from my master ; and I came no sooner into the dining-chamber but he steps me to her trencher and steals her capon 's leg : O , ' tis a foul thing when a cur cannot keep himself in all companies ! I would have , as one should say , one that takes upon him to be a dog indeed , to be , as it were , a dog at all things . If I had not had more wit than he , to take a fault upon me that he did , I think verily he had been hanged for 't ; sure as I live , he had suffered for 't ; you shall judge . He thrusts me himself into the company of three or four gentlemanlike dogs under the duke 's table : he had not been there--bless the mark ! --a pissing while , but all the chamber smelt him . ' Out with the dog ! ' says one : ' What cur is that ? ' says another : ' Whip him out ' says the third : ' Hang him up ' says the duke . I , having been acquainted with the smell before , knew it was Crab , and goes me to the fellow that whips the dogs : ' Friend , ' quoth I , ' you mean to whip the dog ? ' ' Ay , marry , do I , ' quoth he . ' You do him the more wrong , ' quoth I ; ' ' twas I did the thing you wot of . ' He makes me no more ado , but whips me out of the chamber . How many masters would do this for his servant ? Nay , I 'll be sworn , I have sat in the stocks for puddings he hath stolen , otherwise he had been executed ; I have stood on the pillory for geese he hath killed , otherwise he had suffered for 't . Thou thinkest not of this now . Nay , I remember the trick you served me when I took my leave of Madam Silvia : did not I bid thee still mark me and do as I do ? when didst thou see me heave up my leg and make water against a gentlewoman 's farthingale ? didst thou ever see me do such a trick ? Enter PROTEUS and JULIA
PROTEUS : Sebastian is thy name ? I like thee well And will employ thee in some service presently .
JULIA : In what you please : I 'll do what I can .
PROTEUS : I hope thou wilt . To LAUNCE How now , you whoreson peasant ! Where have you been these two days loitering ?
LAUNCE : Marry , sir , I carried Mistress Silvia the dog you bade me .
PROTEUS : And what says she to my little jewel ?
LAUNCE : Marry , she says your dog was a cur , and tells you currish thanks is good enough for such a present .
PROTEUS : But she received my dog ?
LAUNCE : No , indeed , did she not : here have I brought him back again .
PROTEUS : What , didst thou offer her this from me ?
LAUNCE : Ay , sir : the other squirrel was stolen from me by the hangman boys in the market-place : and then I offered her mine own , who is a dog as big as ten of yours , and therefore the gift the greater .
