LORD POLONIUS : My lord , the queen would speak with you , and presently .
HAMLET : Do you see yonder cloud that 's almost in shape of a camel ?
LORD POLONIUS : By the mass , and ' tis like a camel , indeed .
HAMLET : Methinks it is like a weasel .
LORD POLONIUS : It is backed like a weasel .
HAMLET : Or like a whale ?
LORD POLONIUS : Very like a whale .
HAMLET : Then I will come to my mother by and by . They fool me to the top of my bent . I will come by and by .
LORD POLONIUS : I will say so .
HAMLET : By and by is easily said . Exit POLONIUS Leave me , friends . Tis now the very witching time of night , When churchyards yawn and hell itself breathes out Contagion to this world : now could I drink hot blood , And do such bitter business as the day Would quake to look on . Soft ! now to my mother . O heart , lose not thy nature ; let not ever The soul of Nero enter this firm bosom : Let me be cruel , not unnatural : I will speak daggers to her , but use none ; My tongue and soul in this be hypocrites ; How in my words soever she be shent , To give them seals never , my soul , consent ! Exit Enter KING CLAUDIUS , ROSENCRANTZ , and GUILDENSTERN
KING CLAUDIUS : I like him not , nor stands it safe with us To let his madness range . Therefore prepare you ; I your commission will forthwith dispatch , And he to England shall along with you : The terms of our estate may not endure Hazard so dangerous as doth hourly grow Out of his lunacies .
GUILDENSTERN : We will ourselves provide : Most holy and religious fear it is To keep those many many bodies safe That live and feed upon your majesty .
ROSENCRANTZ : The single and peculiar life is bound , With all the strength and armour of the mind , To keep itself from noyance ; but much more That spirit upon whose weal depend and rest The lives of many . The cease of majesty Dies not alone ; but , like a gulf , doth draw What 's near it with it : it is a massy wheel , Fix 'd on the summit of the highest mount , To whose huge spokes ten thousand lesser things Are mortised and adjoin 'd ; which , when it falls , Each small annexment , petty consequence , Attends the boisterous ruin . Never alone Did the king sigh , but with a general groan .
KING CLAUDIUS : Arm you , I pray you , to this speedy voyage ; For we will fetters put upon this fear , Which now goes too free-footed .
ROSENCRANTZ GUILDENSTERN : We will haste us . Enter POLONIUS
LORD POLONIUS : My lord , he 's going to his mother 's closet : Behind the arras I 'll convey myself , To hear the process ; and warrant she 'll tax him home : And , as you said , and wisely was it said , ' Tis meet that some more audience than a mother , Since nature makes them partial , should o 'erhear The speech , of vantage . Fare you well , my liege : I 'll call upon you ere you go to bed , And tell you what I know .
