HORATIO : What 's that , my lord ?
HAMLET : Dost thou think Alexander looked o ' this fashion i ' the earth ?
HORATIO : E 'en so .
HAMLET : And smelt so ? pah ! Puts down the skull
HORATIO : E 'en so , my lord .
HAMLET : To what base uses we may return , Horatio ! Why may not imagination trace the noble dust of Alexander , till he find it stopping a bung-hole ?
HORATIO : ' Twere to consider too curiously , to consider so .
HAMLET : No , faith , not a jot ; but to follow him thither with modesty enough , and likelihood to lead it : as thus : Alexander died , Alexander was buried , Alexander returneth into dust ; the dust is earth ; of earth we make loam ; and why of that loam , whereto he was converted , might they not stop a beer-barrel ? Imperious Caesar , dead and turn 'd to clay , Might stop a hole to keep the wind away : O , that that earth , which kept the world in awe , Should patch a wall to expel the winter flaw ! But soft ! but soft ! aside : here comes the king . Enter Priest , & c. in procession ; the Corpse of OPHELIA , LAERTES and Mourners following ; KING CLAUDIUS , QUEEN GERTRUDE , their trains , & c The queen , the courtiers : who is this they follow ? And with such maimed rites ? This doth betoken The corse they follow did with desperate hand Fordo its own life : ' twas of some estate . Couch we awhile , and mark . Retiring with HORATIO
LAERTES : What ceremony else ?
HAMLET : That is Laertes , A very noble youth : mark .
LAERTES : What ceremony else ?
First Priest : Her obsequies have been as far enlarged As we have warrantise : her death was doubtful ; And , but that great command o 'ersways the order , She should in ground unsanctified have lodged Till the last trumpet : for charitable prayers , Shards , flints and pebbles should be thrown on her ; Yet here she is allow 'd her virgin crants , Her maiden strewments and the bringing home Of bell and burial .
LAERTES : Must there no more be done ?
First Priest : No more be done : We should profane the service of the dead To sing a requiem and such rest to her As to peace-parted souls .
LAERTES : Lay her i ' the earth : And from her fair and unpolluted flesh May violets spring ! I tell thee , churlish priest , A ministering angel shall my sister be , When thou liest howling .
HAMLET : What , the fair Ophelia !
QUEEN GERTRUDE : Sweets to the sweet : farewell ! Scattering flowers I hoped thou shouldst have been my Hamlet 's wife ; I thought thy bride-bed to have deck 'd , sweet maid , And not have strew 'd thy grave .
LAERTES : O , treble woe Fall ten times treble on that cursed head , Whose wicked deed thy most ingenious sense Deprived thee of ! Hold off the earth awhile , Till I have caught her once more in mine arms : Leaps into the grave Now pile your dust upon the quick and dead , Till of this flat a mountain you have made , To o 'ertop old Pelion , or the skyish head Of blue Olympus .
HAMLET : What is he whose grief Bears such an emphasis ? whose phrase of sorrow Conjures the wandering stars , and makes them stand Like wonder-wounded hearers ? This is I , Hamlet the Dane . Leaps into the grave
LAERTES : The devil take thy soul ! Grappling with him
HAMLET : Thou pray 'st not well . I prithee , take thy fingers from my throat ; For , though I am not splenitive and rash , Yet have I something in me dangerous , Which let thy wiseness fear : hold off thy hand .
KING CLAUDIUS : Pluck them asunder .
QUEEN GERTRUDE : Hamlet , Hamlet !
All : Gentlemen , --
HORATIO : Good my lord , be quiet . The Attendants part them , and they come out of the grave
