QUEEN GERTRUDE : Did you assay him ? To any pastime ?
ROSENCRANTZ : Madam , it so fell out , that certain players We o 'er-raught on the way : of these we told him ; And there did seem in him a kind of joy To hear of it : they are about the court , And , as I think , they have already order This night to play before him .
LORD POLONIUS : ' Tis most true : And he beseech 'd me to entreat your majesties To hear and see the matter .
KING CLAUDIUS : With all my heart ; and it doth much content me To hear him so inclined . Good gentlemen , give him a further edge , And drive his purpose on to these delights .
ROSENCRANTZ : We shall , my lord .
KING CLAUDIUS : Sweet Gertrude , leave us too ; For we have closely sent for Hamlet hither , That he , as ' twere by accident , may here Affront Ophelia : Her father and myself , lawful espials , Will so bestow ourselves that , seeing , unseen , We may of their encounter frankly judge , And gather by him , as he is behaved , If ' t be the affliction of his love or no That thus he suffers for .
QUEEN GERTRUDE : I shall obey you . And for your part , Ophelia , I do wish That your good beauties be the happy cause Of Hamlet 's wildness : so shall I hope your virtues Will bring him to his wonted way again , To both your honours .
OPHELIA : Madam , I wish it may . Exit QUEEN GERTRUDE
LORD POLONIUS : Ophelia , walk you here . Gracious , so please you , We will bestow ourselves . To OPHELIA Read on this book ; That show of such an exercise may colour Your loneliness . We are oft to blame in this , -- ' Tis too much proved--that with devotion 's visage And pious action we do sugar o 'er The devil himself .
KING CLAUDIUS : O , ' tis too true ! How smart a lash that speech doth give my conscience ! The harlot 's cheek , beautied with plastering art , Is not more ugly to the thing that helps it Than is my deed to my most painted word : O heavy burthen !
LORD POLONIUS : I hear him coming : let 's withdraw , my lord . Enter HAMLET
HAMLET : To be , or not to be : that is the question : Whether ' tis nobler in the mind to suffer The slings and arrows of outrageous fortune , Or to take arms against a sea of troubles , And by opposing end them ? To die : to sleep ; No more ; and by a sleep to say we end The heart-ache and the thousand natural shocks That flesh is heir to , ' tis a consummation Devoutly to be wish 'd . To die , to sleep ; To sleep : perchance to dream : ay , there 's the rub ; For in that sleep of death what dreams may come When we have shuffled off this mortal coil , Must give us pause : there 's the respect That makes calamity of so long life ; For who would bear the whips and scorns of time , The oppressor 's wrong , the proud man 's contumely , The pangs of despised love , the law 's delay , The insolence of office and the spurns That patient merit of the unworthy takes , When he himself might his quietus make With a bare bodkin ? who would fardels bear , To grunt and sweat under a weary life , But that the dread of something after death , The undiscover 'd country from whose bourn No traveller returns , puzzles the will And makes us rather bear those ills we have Than fly to others that we know not of ? Thus conscience does make cowards of us all ; And thus the native hue of resolution Is sicklied o 'er with the pale cast of thought , And enterprises of great pith and moment With this regard their currents turn awry , And lose the name of action.--Soft you now ! The fair Ophelia ! Nymph , in thy orisons Be all my sins remember 'd .
