QUEEN GERTRUDE : Alas , how is 't with you , That you do bend your eye on vacancy And with the incorporal air do hold discourse ? Forth at your eyes your spirits wildly peep ; And , as the sleeping soldiers in the alarm , Your bedded hair , like life in excrements , Starts up , and stands on end . O gentle son , Upon the heat and flame of thy distemper Sprinkle cool patience . Whereon do you look ?
HAMLET : On him , on him ! Look you , how pale he glares ! His form and cause conjoin 'd , preaching to stones , Would make them capable . Do not look upon me ; Lest with this piteous action you convert My stern effects : then what I have to do Will want true colour ; tears perchance for blood .
QUEEN GERTRUDE : To whom do you speak this ?
HAMLET : Do you see nothing there ?
QUEEN GERTRUDE : Nothing at all ; yet all that is I see .
HAMLET : Nor did you nothing hear ?
QUEEN GERTRUDE : No , nothing but ourselves .
HAMLET : Why , look you there ! look , how it steals away ! My father , in his habit as he lived ! Look , where he goes , even now , out at the portal ! Exit Ghost
QUEEN GERTRUDE : This the very coinage of your brain : This bodiless creation ecstasy Is very cunning in .
HAMLET : Ecstasy ! My pulse , as yours , doth temperately keep time , And makes as healthful music : it is not madness That I have utter 'd : bring me to the test , And I the matter will re-word ; which madness Would gambol from . Mother , for love of grace , Lay not that mattering unction to your soul , That not your trespass , but my madness speaks : It will but skin and film the ulcerous place , Whilst rank corruption , mining all within , Infects unseen . Confess yourself to heaven ; Repent what 's past ; avoid what is to come ; And do not spread the compost on the weeds , To make them ranker . Forgive me this my virtue ; For in the fatness of these pursy times Virtue itself of vice must pardon beg , Yea , curb and woo for leave to do him good .
QUEEN GERTRUDE : O Hamlet , thou hast cleft my heart in twain .
HAMLET : O , throw away the worser part of it , And live the purer with the other half . Good night : but go not to mine uncle 's bed ; Assume a virtue , if you have it not . That monster , custom , who all sense doth eat , Of habits devil , is angel yet in this , That to the use of actions fair and good He likewise gives a frock or livery , That aptly is put on . Refrain to-night , And that shall lend a kind of easiness To the next abstinence : the next more easy ; For use almost can change the stamp of nature , And either the devil , or throw him out With wondrous potency . Once more , good night : And when you are desirous to be bless 'd , I 'll blessing beg of you . For this same lord , Pointing to POLONIUS I do repent : but heaven hath pleased it so , To punish me with this and this with me , That I must be their scourge and minister . I will bestow him , and will answer well The death I gave him . So , again , good night . I must be cruel , only to be kind : Thus bad begins and worse remains behind . One word more , good lady .
QUEEN GERTRUDE : What shall I do ?
