Ghost : Swear .
HAMLET : Well said , old mole ! canst work i ' the earth so fast ? A worthy pioner ! Once more remove , good friends .
HORATIO : O day and night , but this is wondrous strange !
HAMLET : And therefore as a stranger give it welcome . There are more things in heaven and earth , Horatio , Than are dreamt of in your philosophy . But come ; Here , as before , never , so help you mercy , How strange or odd soe 'er I bear myself , As I perchance hereafter shall think meet To put an antic disposition on , That you , at such times seeing me , never shall , With arms encumber 'd thus , or this headshake , Or by pronouncing of some doubtful phrase , As ' Well , well , we know , ' or ' We could , an if we would , ' Or ' If we list to speak , ' or ' There be , an if they might , ' Or such ambiguous giving out , to note That you know aught of me : this not to do , So grace and mercy at your most need help you , Swear .
Ghost : Swear .
HAMLET : Rest , rest , perturbed spirit ! They swear So , gentlemen , With all my love I do commend me to you : And what so poor a man as Hamlet is May do , to express his love and friending to you , God willing , shall not lack . Let us go in together ; And still your fingers on your lips , I pray . The time is out of joint : O cursed spite , That ever I was born to set it right ! Nay , come , let 's go together . Enter POLONIUS and REYNALDO
LORD POLONIUS : Give him this money and these notes , Reynaldo .
REYNALDO : I will , my lord .
LORD POLONIUS : You shall do marvellous wisely , good Reynaldo , Before you visit him , to make inquire Of his behavior .
REYNALDO : My lord , I did intend it .
LORD POLONIUS : Marry , well said ; very well said . Look you , sir , Inquire me first what Danskers are in Paris ; And how , and who , what means , and where they keep , What company , at what expense ; and finding By this encompassment and drift of question That they do know my son , come you more nearer Than your particular demands will touch it : Take you , as ' twere , some distant knowledge of him ; As thus , ' I know his father and his friends , And in part him : ' do you mark this , Reynaldo ?
REYNALDO : Ay , very well , my lord .
LORD POLONIUS : ' And in part him ; but ' you may say ' not well : But , if 't be he I mean , he 's very wild ; Addicted so and so : ' and there put on him What forgeries you please ; marry , none so rank As may dishonour him ; take heed of that ; But , sir , such wanton , wild and usual slips As are companions noted and most known To youth and liberty .
REYNALDO : As gaming , my lord .
LORD POLONIUS : Ay , or drinking , fencing , swearing , quarrelling , Drabbing : you may go so far .
REYNALDO : My lord , that would dishonour him .
LORD POLONIUS : ' Faith , no ; as you may season it in the charge You must not put another scandal on him , That he is open to incontinency ; That 's not my meaning : but breathe his faults so quaintly That they may seem the taints of liberty , The flash and outbreak of a fiery mind , A savageness in unreclaimed blood , Of general assault .
REYNALDO : But , my good lord , --
LORD POLONIUS : Wherefore should you do this ?
REYNALDO : Ay , my lord , I would know that .
