QUEEN GERTRUDE : Alack , what noise is this ?
KING CLAUDIUS : Where are my Switzers ? Let them guard the door . Enter another Gentleman What is the matter ?
Gentleman : Save yourself , my lord : The ocean , overpeering of his list , Eats not the flats with more impetuous haste Than young Laertes , in a riotous head , O 'erbears your officers . The rabble call him lord ; And , as the world were now but to begin , Antiquity forgot , custom not known , The ratifiers and props of every word , They cry ' Choose we : Laertes shall be king : ' Caps , hands , and tongues , applaud it to the clouds : ' Laertes shall be king , Laertes king ! '
QUEEN GERTRUDE : How cheerfully on the false trail they cry ! O , this is counter , you false Danish dogs !
KING CLAUDIUS : The doors are broke . Noise within Enter LAERTES , armed ; Danes following
LAERTES : Where is this king ? Sirs , stand you all without .
Danes : No , let 's come in .
LAERTES : I pray you , give me leave .
Danes : We will , we will . They retire without the door
LAERTES : I thank you : keep the door . O thou vile king , Give me my father !
QUEEN GERTRUDE : Calmly , good Laertes .
LAERTES : That drop of blood that 's calm proclaims me bastard , Cries cuckold to my father , brands the harlot Even here , between the chaste unsmirched brow Of my true mother .
KING CLAUDIUS : What is the cause , Laertes , That thy rebellion looks so giant-like ? Let him go , Gertrude ; do not fear our person : There 's such divinity doth hedge a king , That treason can but peep to what it would , Acts little of his will . Tell me , Laertes , Why thou art thus incensed . Let him go , Gertrude . Speak , man .
LAERTES : Where is my father ?
KING CLAUDIUS : Dead .
QUEEN GERTRUDE : But not by him .
KING CLAUDIUS : Let him demand his fill .
LAERTES : How came he dead ? I 'll not be juggled with : To hell , allegiance ! vows , to the blackest devil ! Conscience and grace , to the profoundest pit ! I dare damnation . To this point I stand , That both the worlds I give to negligence , Let come what comes ; only I 'll be revenged Most thoroughly for my father .
KING CLAUDIUS : Who shall stay you ?
LAERTES : My will , not all the world : And for my means , I 'll husband them so well , They shall go far with little .
KING CLAUDIUS : Good Laertes , If you desire to know the certainty Of your dear father 's death , is 't writ in your revenge , That , swoopstake , you will draw both friend and foe , Winner and loser ?
LAERTES : None but his enemies .
KING CLAUDIUS : Will you know them then ?
LAERTES : To his good friends thus wide I 'll ope my arms ; And like the kind life-rendering pelican , Repast them with my blood .
KING CLAUDIUS : Why , now you speak Like a good child and a true gentleman . That I am guiltless of your father 's death , And am most sensible in grief for it , It shall as level to your judgment pierce As day does to your eye .
Danes : Let her come in .
LAERTES : How now ! what noise is that ? Re-enter OPHELIA O heat , dry up my brains ! tears seven times salt , Burn out the sense and virtue of mine eye ! By heaven , thy madness shall be paid by weight , Till our scale turn the beam . O rose of May ! Dear maid , kind sister , sweet Ophelia ! O heavens ! is 't possible , a young maid 's wits Should be as moral as an old man 's life ? Nature is fine in love , and where ' tis fine , It sends some precious instance of itself After the thing it loves .
