HORATIO : Ay , my lord , and of calf-skins too .
HAMLET : They are sheep and calves which seek out assurance in that . I will speak to this fellow . Whose grave 's this , sirrah ?
First Clown : Mine , sir . Sings O , a pit of clay for to be made For such a guest is meet .
HAMLET : I think it be thine , indeed ; for thou liest in 't .
First Clown : You lie out on 't , sir , and therefore it is not yours : for my part , I do not lie in 't , and yet it is mine .
HAMLET : ' Thou dost lie in 't , to be in 't and say it is thine : ' tis for the dead , not for the quick ; therefore thou liest .
First Clown : ' Tis a quick lie , sir ; ' twill away gain , from me to you .
HAMLET : What man dost thou dig it for ?
First Clown : For no man , sir .
HAMLET : What woman , then ?
First Clown : For none , neither .
HAMLET : Who is to be buried in 't ?
First Clown : One that was a woman , sir ; but , rest her soul , she 's dead .
HAMLET : How absolute the knave is ! we must speak by the card , or equivocation will undo us . By the Lord , Horatio , these three years I have taken a note of it ; the age is grown so picked that the toe of the peasant comes so near the heel of the courtier , he gaffs his kibe . How long hast thou been a grave-maker ?
First Clown : Of all the days i ' the year , I came to 't that day that our last king Hamlet overcame Fortinbras .
HAMLET : How long is that since ?
First Clown : Cannot you tell that ? every fool can tell that : it was the very day that young Hamlet was born ; he that is mad , and sent into England .
HAMLET : Ay , marry , why was he sent into England ?
First Clown : Why , because he was mad : he shall recover his wits there ; or , if he do not , it 's no great matter there .
HAMLET : Why ?
First Clown : ' Twill , a not be seen in him there ; there the men are as mad as he .
HAMLET : How came he mad ?
First Clown : Very strangely , they say .
HAMLET : How strangely ?
First Clown : Faith , e 'en with losing his wits .
HAMLET : Upon what ground ?
First Clown : Why , here in Denmark : I have been sexton here , man and boy , thirty years .
HAMLET : How long will a man lie i ' the earth ere he rot ?
First Clown : I ' faith , if he be not rotten before he die--as we have many pocky corses now-a-days , that will scarce hold the laying in--he will last you some eight year or nine year : a tanner will last you nine year .
HAMLET : Why he more than another ?
First Clown : Why , sir , his hide is so tanned with his trade , that he will keep out water a great while ; and your water is a sore decayer of your whoreson dead body . Here 's a skull now ; this skull has lain in the earth three and twenty years .
HAMLET : Whose was it ?
First Clown : A whoreson mad fellow 's it was : whose do you think it was ?
HAMLET : Nay , I know not .
First Clown : A pestilence on him for a mad rogue ! a ' poured a flagon of Rhenish on my head once . This same skull , sir , was Yorick 's skull , the king 's jester .
HAMLET : This ?
First Clown : E 'en that .
