LORD POLONIUS : My lord , I have news to tell you .
HAMLET : My lord , I have news to tell you . When Roscius was an actor in Rome , --
LORD POLONIUS : The actors are come hither , my lord .
HAMLET : Buz , buz !
LORD POLONIUS : Upon mine honour , --
HAMLET : Then came each actor on his ass , --
LORD POLONIUS : The best actors in the world , either for tragedy , comedy , history , pastoral , pastoral-comical , historical-pastoral , tragical-historical , tragical- comical-historical-pastoral , scene individable , or poem unlimited : Seneca cannot be too heavy , nor Plautus too light . For the law of writ and the liberty , these are the only men .
HAMLET : O Jephthah , judge of Israel , what a treasure hadst thou !
LORD POLONIUS : What a treasure had he , my lord ?
HAMLET : Why , ' One fair daughter and no more , The which he loved passing well . ' 
LORD POLONIUS : Still on my daughter .
HAMLET : Am I not i ' the right , old Jephthah ?
LORD POLONIUS : If you call me Jephthah , my lord , I have a daughter that I love passing well .
HAMLET : Nay , that follows not .
LORD POLONIUS : What follows , then , my lord ?
HAMLET : Why , ' As by lot , God wot , ' and then , you know , ' It came to pass , as most like it was , ' -- the first row of the pious chanson will show you more ; for look , where my abridgement comes . Enter four or five Players You are welcome , masters ; welcome , all . I am glad to see thee well . Welcome , good friends . O , my old friend ! thy face is valenced since I saw thee last : comest thou to beard me in Denmark ? What , my young lady and mistress ! By 'r lady , your ladyship is nearer to heaven than when I saw you last , by the altitude of a chopine . Pray God , your voice , like apiece of uncurrent gold , be not cracked within the ring . Masters , you are all welcome . We 'll e 'en to 't like French falconers , fly at any thing we see : we 'll have a speech straight : come , give us a taste of your quality ; come , a passionate speech .
First Player : What speech , my lord ?
