QUEEN GERTRUDE : One woe doth tread upon another 's heel , So fast they follow ; your sister 's drown 'd , Laertes .
LAERTES : Drown 'd ! O , where ?
QUEEN GERTRUDE : There is a willow grows aslant a brook , That shows his hoar leaves in the glassy stream ; There with fantastic garlands did she come Of crow-flowers , nettles , daisies , and long purples That liberal shepherds give a grosser name , But our cold maids do dead men 's fingers call them : There , on the pendent boughs her coronet weeds Clambering to hang , an envious sliver broke ; When down her weedy trophies and herself Fell in the weeping brook . Her clothes spread wide ; And , mermaid-like , awhile they bore her up : Which time she chanted snatches of old tunes ; As one incapable of her own distress , Or like a creature native and indued Unto that element : but long it could not be Till that her garments , heavy with their drink , Pull 'd the poor wretch from her melodious lay To muddy death .
LAERTES : Alas , then , she is drown 'd ?
QUEEN GERTRUDE : Drown 'd , drown 'd .
LAERTES : Too much of water hast thou , poor Ophelia , And therefore I forbid my tears : but yet It is our trick ; nature her custom holds , Let shame say what it will : when these are gone , The woman will be out . Adieu , my lord : I have a speech of fire , that fain would blaze , But that this folly douts it . Exit
KING CLAUDIUS : Let 's follow , Gertrude : How much I had to do to calm his rage ! Now fear I this will give it start again ; Therefore let 's follow . Enter two Clowns , with spades , & c
First Clown : Is she to be buried in Christian burial that wilfully seeks her own salvation ?
Second Clown : I tell thee she is : and therefore make her grave straight : the crowner hath sat on her , and finds it Christian burial .
First Clown : How can that be , unless she drowned herself in her own defence ?
Second Clown : Why , ' tis found so .
First Clown : It must be ' se offendendo ; ' it cannot be else . For here lies the point : if I drown myself wittingly , it argues an act : and an act hath three branches : it is , to act , to do , to perform : argal , she drowned herself wittingly .
Second Clown : Nay , but hear you , goodman delver , --
First Clown : Give me leave . Here lies the water ; good : here stands the man ; good ; if the man go to this water , and drown himself , it is , will he , nill he , he goes , --mark you that ; but if the water come to him and drown him , he drowns not himself : argal , he that is not guilty of his own death shortens not his own life .
Second Clown : But is this law ?
First Clown : Ay , marry , is 't ; crowner 's quest law .
Second Clown : Will you ha ' the truth on 't ? If this had not been a gentlewoman , she should have been buried out o ' Christian burial .
First Clown : Why , there thou say 'st : and the more pity that great folk should have countenance in this world to drown or hang themselves , more than their even Christian . Come , my spade . There is no ancient gentleman but gardeners , ditchers , and grave-makers : they hold up Adam 's profession .
Second Clown : Was he a gentleman ?
First Clown : He was the first that ever bore arms .
Second Clown : Why , he had none .
First Clown : What , art a heathen ? How dost thou understand the Scripture ? The Scripture says ' Adam digged : ' could he dig without arms ? I 'll put another question to thee : if thou answerest me not to the purpose , confess thyself--
Second Clown : Go to .
