KING CLAUDIUS : Follow him at foot ; tempt him with speed aboard ; Delay it not ; I 'll have him hence to-night : Away ! for every thing is seal 'd and done That else leans on the affair : pray you , make haste . And , England , if my love thou hold 'st at aught-- As my great power thereof may give thee sense , Since yet thy cicatrice looks raw and red After the Danish sword , and thy free awe Pays homage to us--thou mayst not coldly set Our sovereign process ; which imports at full , By letters congruing to that effect , The present death of Hamlet . Do it , England ; For like the hectic in my blood he rages , And thou must cure me : till I know ' tis done , Howe 'er my haps , my joys were ne 'er begun . Exit Enter FORTINBRAS , a Captain , and Soldiers , marching
PRINCE FORTINBRAS : Go , captain , from me greet the Danish king ; Tell him that , by his licence , Fortinbras Craves the conveyance of a promised march Over his kingdom . You know the rendezvous . If that his majesty would aught with us , We shall express our duty in his eye ; And let him know so .
Captain : I will do 't , my lord .
PRINCE FORTINBRAS : Go softly on . Enter HAMLET , ROSENCRANTZ , GUILDENSTERN , and others
HAMLET : Good sir , whose powers are these ?
Captain : They are of Norway , sir .
HAMLET : How purposed , sir , I pray you ?
Captain : Against some part of Poland .
HAMLET : Who commands them , sir ?
Captain : The nephews to old Norway , Fortinbras .
HAMLET : Goes it against the main of Poland , sir , Or for some frontier ?
Captain : Truly to speak , and with no addition , We go to gain a little patch of ground That hath in it no profit but the name . To pay five ducats , five , I would not farm it ; Nor will it yield to Norway or the Pole A ranker rate , should it be sold in fee .
HAMLET : Why , then the Polack never will defend it .
Captain : Yes , it is already garrison 'd .
HAMLET : Two thousand souls and twenty thousand ducats Will not debate the question of this straw : This is the imposthume of much wealth and peace , That inward breaks , and shows no cause without Why the man dies . I humbly thank you , sir .
Captain : God be wi ' you , sir . Exit
ROSENCRANTZ : Wilt please you go , my lord ?
