HAMLET : I humbly thank you ; well , well , well .
OPHELIA : My lord , I have remembrances of yours , That I have longed long to re-deliver ; I pray you , now receive them .
HAMLET : No , not I ; I never gave you aught .
OPHELIA : My honour 'd lord , you know right well you did ; And , with them , words of so sweet breath composed As made the things more rich : their perfume lost , Take these again ; for to the noble mind Rich gifts wax poor when givers prove unkind . There , my lord .
HAMLET : Ha , ha ! are you honest ?
OPHELIA : My lord ?
HAMLET : Are you fair ?
OPHELIA : What means your lordship ?
HAMLET : That if you be honest and fair , your honesty should admit no discourse to your beauty .
OPHELIA : Could beauty , my lord , have better commerce than with honesty ?
HAMLET : Ay , truly ; for the power of beauty will sooner transform honesty from what it is to a bawd than the force of honesty can translate beauty into his likeness : this was sometime a paradox , but now the time gives it proof . I did love you once .
OPHELIA : Indeed , my lord , you made me believe so .
HAMLET : You should not have believed me ; for virtue cannot so inoculate our old stock but we shall relish of it : I loved you not .
OPHELIA : I was the more deceived .
HAMLET : Get thee to a nunnery : why wouldst thou be a breeder of sinners ? I am myself indifferent honest ; but yet I could accuse me of such things that it were better my mother had not borne me : I am very proud , revengeful , ambitious , with more offences at my beck than I have thoughts to put them in , imagination to give them shape , or time to act them in . What should such fellows as I do crawling between earth and heaven ? We are arrant knaves , all ; believe none of us . Go thy ways to a nunnery . Where 's your father ?
OPHELIA : At home , my lord .
HAMLET : Let the doors be shut upon him , that he may play the fool no where but in 's own house . Farewell .
OPHELIA : O , help him , you sweet heavens !
HAMLET : If thou dost marry , I 'll give thee this plague for thy dowry : be thou as chaste as ice , as pure as snow , thou shalt not escape calumny . Get thee to a nunnery , go : farewell . Or , if thou wilt needs marry , marry a fool ; for wise men know well enough what monsters you make of them . To a nunnery , go , and quickly too . Farewell .
OPHELIA : O heavenly powers , restore him !
HAMLET : I have heard of your paintings too , well enough ; God has given you one face , and you make yourselves another : you jig , you amble , and you lisp , and nick-name God 's creatures , and make your wantonness your ignorance . Go to , I 'll no more on 't ; it hath made me mad . I say , we will have no more marriages : those that are married already , all but one , shall live ; the rest shall keep as they are . To a nunnery , go . Exit
