QUEEN GERTRUDE : O my son , what theme ?
HAMLET : I loved Ophelia : forty thousand brothers Could not , with all their quantity of love , Make up my sum . What wilt thou do for her ?
KING CLAUDIUS : O , he is mad , Laertes .
QUEEN GERTRUDE : For love of God , forbear him .
HAMLET : ' Swounds , show me what thou 'lt do : Woo 't weep ? woo 't fight ? woo 't fast ? woo 't tear thyself ? Woo 't drink up eisel ? eat a crocodile ? I 'll do 't . Dost thou come here to whine ? To outface me with leaping in her grave ? Be buried quick with her , and so will I : And , if thou prate of mountains , let them throw Millions of acres on us , till our ground , Singeing his pate against the burning zone , Make Ossa like a wart ! Nay , an thou 'lt mouth , I 'll rant as well as thou .
QUEEN GERTRUDE : This is mere madness : And thus awhile the fit will work on him ; Anon , as patient as the female dove , When that her golden couplets are disclosed , His silence will sit drooping .
HAMLET : Hear you , sir ; What is the reason that you use me thus ? I loved you ever : but it is no matter ; Let Hercules himself do what he may , The cat will mew and dog will have his day . Exit
KING CLAUDIUS : I pray you , good Horatio , wait upon him . Exit HORATIO To LAERTES Strengthen your patience in our last night 's speech ; We 'll put the matter to the present push . Good Gertrude , set some watch over your son . This grave shall have a living monument : An hour of quiet shortly shall we see ; Till then , in patience our proceeding be . Enter HAMLET and HORATIO
HAMLET : So much for this , sir : now shall you see the other ; You do remember all the circumstance ?
HORATIO : Remember it , my lord ?
HAMLET : Sir , in my heart there was a kind of fighting , That would not let me sleep : methought I lay Worse than the mutines in the bilboes . Rashly , And praised be rashness for it , let us know , Our indiscretion sometimes serves us well , When our deep plots do pall : and that should teach us There 's a divinity that shapes our ends , Rough-hew them how we will , --
HORATIO : That is most certain .
HAMLET : Up from my cabin , My sea-gown scarf 'd about me , in the dark Groped I to find out them ; had my desire . Finger 'd their packet , and in fine withdrew To mine own room again ; making so bold , My fears forgetting manners , to unseal Their grand commission ; where I found , Horatio , -- O royal knavery ! --an exact command , Larded with many several sorts of reasons Importing Denmark 's health and England 's too , With , ho ! such bugs and goblins in my life , That , on the supervise , no leisure bated , No , not to stay the grinding of the axe , My head should be struck off .
HORATIO : Is 't possible ?
HAMLET : Here 's the commission : read it at more leisure . But wilt thou hear me how I did proceed ?
HORATIO : I beseech you .
HAMLET : Being thus be-netted round with villanies , -- Ere I could make a prologue to my brains , They had begun the play--I sat me down , Devised a new commission , wrote it fair : I once did hold it , as our statists do , A baseness to write fair and labour 'd much How to forget that learning , but , sir , now It did me yeoman 's service : wilt thou know The effect of what I wrote ?
HORATIO : Ay , good my lord .
