Second Clown : The gallows-maker ; for that frame outlives a thousand tenants .
First Clown : I like thy wit well , in good faith : the gallows does well ; but how does it well ? it does well to those that do in : now thou dost ill to say the gallows is built stronger than the church : argal , the gallows may do well to thee . To 't again , come .
Second Clown : ' Who builds stronger than a mason , a shipwright , or a carpenter ? '
First Clown : Ay , tell me that , and unyoke .
Second Clown : Marry , now I can tell .
First Clown : To 't .
Second Clown : Mass , I cannot tell . Enter HAMLET and HORATIO , at a distance
First Clown : Cudgel thy brains no more about it , for your dull ass will not mend his pace with beating ; and , when you are asked this question next , say ' a grave-maker : ' the houses that he makes last till doomsday . Go , get thee to Yaughan : fetch me a stoup of liquor . Exit Second Clown He digs and sings In youth , when I did love , did love , Methought it was very sweet , To contract , O , the time , for , ah , my behove , O , methought , there was nothing meet .
HAMLET : Has this fellow no feeling of his business , that he sings at grave-making ?
HORATIO : Custom hath made it in him a property of easiness .
HAMLET : ' Tis e 'en so : the hand of little employment hath the daintier sense .
First Clown : But age , with his stealing steps , Hath claw 'd me in his clutch , And hath shipped me intil the land , As if I had never been such . Throws up a skull
HAMLET : That skull had a tongue in it , and could sing once : how the knave jowls it to the ground , as if it were Cain 's jaw-bone , that did the first murder ! It might be the pate of a politician , which this ass now o 'er-reaches ; one that would circumvent God , might it not ?
HORATIO : It might , my lord .
HAMLET : Or of a courtier ; which could say ' Good morrow , sweet lord ! How dost thou , good lord ? ' This might be my lord such-a-one , that praised my lord such-a-one 's horse , when he meant to beg it ; might it not ?
HORATIO : Ay , my lord .
HAMLET : Why , e 'en so : and now my Lady Worm 's ; chapless , and knocked about the mazzard with a sexton 's spade : here 's fine revolution , an we had the trick to see 't . Did these bones cost no more the breeding , but to play at loggats with ' em ? mine ache to think on 't .
First Clown : A pick-axe , and a spade , a spade , For and a shrouding sheet : O , a pit of clay for to be made For such a guest is meet . Throws up another skull
HAMLET : There 's another : why may not that be the skull of a lawyer ? Where be his quiddities now , his quillets , his cases , his tenures , and his tricks ? why does he suffer this rude knave now to knock him about the sconce with a dirty shovel , and will not tell him of his action of battery ? Hum ! This fellow might be in 's time a great buyer of land , with his statutes , his recognizances , his fines , his double vouchers , his recoveries : is this the fine of his fines , and the recovery of his recoveries , to have his fine pate full of fine dirt ? will his vouchers vouch him no more of his purchases , and double ones too , than the length and breadth of a pair of indentures ? The very conveyances of his lands will hardly lie in this box ; and must the inheritor himself have no more , ha ?
HORATIO : Not a jot more , my lord .
