LAERTES : O , fear me not . I stay too long : but here my father comes . Enter POLONIUS A double blessing is a double grace , Occasion smiles upon a second leave .
LORD POLONIUS : Yet here , Laertes ! aboard , aboard , for shame ! The wind sits in the shoulder of your sail , And you are stay 'd for . There ; my blessing with thee ! And these few precepts in thy memory See thou character . Give thy thoughts no tongue , Nor any unproportioned thought his act . Be thou familiar , but by no means vulgar . Those friends thou hast , and their adoption tried , Grapple them to thy soul with hoops of steel ; But do not dull thy palm with entertainment Of each new-hatch 'd , unfledged comrade . Beware Of entrance to a quarrel , but being in , Bear 't that the opposed may beware of thee . Give every man thy ear , but few thy voice ; Take each man 's censure , but reserve thy judgment . Costly thy habit as thy purse can buy , But not express 'd in fancy ; rich , not gaudy ; For the apparel oft proclaims the man , And they in France of the best rank and station Are of a most select and generous chief in that . Neither a borrower nor a lender be ; For loan oft loses both itself and friend , And borrowing dulls the edge of husbandry . This above all : to thine ownself be true , And it must follow , as the night the day , Thou canst not then be false to any man . Farewell : my blessing season this in thee !
LAERTES : Most humbly do I take my leave , my lord .
LORD POLONIUS : The time invites you ; go ; your servants tend .
LAERTES : Farewell , Ophelia ; and remember well What I have said to you .
OPHELIA : ' Tis in my memory lock 'd , And you yourself shall keep the key of it .
LAERTES : Farewell . Exit
LORD POLONIUS : What is 't , Ophelia , be hath said to you ?
OPHELIA : So please you , something touching the Lord Hamlet .
LORD POLONIUS : Marry , well bethought : ' Tis told me , he hath very oft of late Given private time to you ; and you yourself Have of your audience been most free and bounteous : If it be so , as so ' tis put on me , And that in way of caution , I must tell you , You do not understand yourself so clearly As it behoves my daughter and your honour . What is between you ? give me up the truth .
OPHELIA : He hath , my lord , of late made many tenders Of his affection to me .
LORD POLONIUS : Affection ! pooh ! you speak like a green girl , Unsifted in such perilous circumstance . Do you believe his tenders , as you call them ?
OPHELIA : I do not know , my lord , what I should think .
LORD POLONIUS : Marry , I 'll teach you : think yourself a baby ; That you have ta 'en these tenders for true pay , Which are not sterling . Tender yourself more dearly ; Or--not to crack the wind of the poor phrase , Running it thus--you 'll tender me a fool .
OPHELIA : My lord , he hath importuned me with love In honourable fashion .
LORD POLONIUS : Ay , fashion you may call it ; go to , go to .
OPHELIA : And hath given countenance to his speech , my lord , With almost all the holy vows of heaven .
