HAMLET : As thou 'rt a man , Give me the cup : let go ; by heaven , I 'll have 't . O good Horatio , what a wounded name , Things standing thus unknown , shall live behind me ! If thou didst ever hold me in thy heart Absent thee from felicity awhile , And in this harsh world draw thy breath in pain , To tell my story . March afar off , and shot within What warlike noise is this ?
OSRIC : Young Fortinbras , with conquest come from Poland , To the ambassadors of England gives This warlike volley .
HAMLET : O , I die , Horatio ; The potent poison quite o 'er-crows my spirit : I cannot live to hear the news from England ; But I do prophesy the election lights On Fortinbras : he has my dying voice ; So tell him , with the occurrents , more and less , Which have solicited . The rest is silence . Dies
HORATIO : Now cracks a noble heart . Good night sweet prince : And flights of angels sing thee to thy rest ! Why does the drum come hither ? March within Enter FORTINBRAS , the English Ambassadors , and others
PRINCE FORTINBRAS : Where is this sight ?
HORATIO : What is it ye would see ? If aught of woe or wonder , cease your search .
PRINCE FORTINBRAS : This quarry cries on havoc . O proud death , What feast is toward in thine eternal cell , That thou so many princes at a shot So bloodily hast struck ?
First Ambassador : The sight is dismal ; And our affairs from England come too late : The ears are senseless that should give us hearing , To tell him his commandment is fulfill 'd , That Rosencrantz and Guildenstern are dead : Where should we have our thanks ?
HORATIO : Not from his mouth , Had it the ability of life to thank you : He never gave commandment for their death . But since , so jump upon this bloody question , You from the Polack wars , and you from England , Are here arrived give order that these bodies High on a stage be placed to the view ; And let me speak to the yet unknowing world How these things came about : so shall you hear Of carnal , bloody , and unnatural acts , Of accidental judgments , casual slaughters , Of deaths put on by cunning and forced cause , And , in this upshot , purposes mistook Fall 'n on the inventors ' reads : all this can I Truly deliver .
PRINCE FORTINBRAS : Let us haste to hear it , And call the noblest to the audience . For me , with sorrow I embrace my fortune : I have some rights of memory in this kingdom , Which now to claim my vantage doth invite me .
HORATIO : Of that I shall have also cause to speak , And from his mouth whose voice will draw on more ; But let this same be presently perform 'd , Even while men 's minds are wild ; lest more mischance On plots and errors , happen .
