LAERTES : Hadst thou thy wits , and didst persuade revenge , It could not move thus .
OPHELIA : You must sing a-down a-down , An you call him a-down-a . O , how the wheel becomes it ! It is the false steward , that stole his master 's daughter .
LAERTES : This nothing 's more than matter .
OPHELIA : There 's rosemary , that 's for remembrance ; pray , love , remember : and there is pansies. that 's for thoughts .
LAERTES : A document in madness , thoughts and remembrance fitted .
OPHELIA : There 's fennel for you , and columbines : there 's rue for you ; and here 's some for me : we may call it herb-grace o ' Sundays : O you must wear your rue with a difference . There 's a daisy : I would give you some violets , but they withered all when my father died : they say he made a good end , -- Sings For bonny sweet Robin is all my joy .
LAERTES : Thought and affliction , passion , hell itself , She turns to favour and to prettiness .
OPHELIA : And will he not come again ? And will he not come again ? No , no , he is dead : Go to thy death-bed : He never will come again . His beard was as white as snow , All flaxen was his poll : He is gone , he is gone , And we cast away moan : God ha ' mercy on his soul ! And of all Christian souls , I pray God . God be wi ' ye . Exit
LAERTES : Do you see this , O God ?
KING CLAUDIUS : Laertes , I must commune with your grief , Or you deny me right . Go but apart , Make choice of whom your wisest friends you will . And they shall hear and judge ' twixt you and me : If by direct or by collateral hand They find us touch 'd , we will our kingdom give , Our crown , our life , and all that we can ours , To you in satisfaction ; but if not , Be you content to lend your patience to us , And we shall jointly labour with your soul To give it due content .
LAERTES : Let this be so ; His means of death , his obscure funeral-- No trophy , sword , nor hatchment o 'er his bones , No noble rite nor formal ostentation-- Cry to be heard , as ' twere from heaven to earth , That I must call 't in question .
KING CLAUDIUS : So you shall ; And where the offence is let the great axe fall . I pray you , go with me . Enter HORATIO and a Servant
HORATIO : What are they that would speak with me ?
Servant : Sailors , sir : they say they have letters for you .
HORATIO : Let them come in . Exit Servant I do not know from what part of the world I should be greeted , if not from Lord Hamlet . Enter Sailors
First Sailor : God bless you , sir .
HORATIO : Let him bless thee too .
First Sailor : He shall , sir , an 't please him . There 's a letter for you , sir ; it comes from the ambassador that was bound for England ; if your name be Horatio , as I am let to know it is .
