HAMLET : A little more than kin , and less than kind .
KING CLAUDIUS : How is it that the clouds still hang on you ?
HAMLET : Not so , my lord ; I am too much i ' the sun .
QUEEN GERTRUDE : Good Hamlet , cast thy nighted colour off , And let thine eye look like a friend on Denmark . Do not for ever with thy vailed lids Seek for thy noble father in the dust : Thou know 'st ' tis common ; all that lives must die , Passing through nature to eternity .
HAMLET : Ay , madam , it is common .
QUEEN GERTRUDE : If it be , Why seems it so particular with thee ?
HAMLET : Seems , madam ! nay it is ; I know not ' seems . ' ' Tis not alone my inky cloak , good mother , Nor customary suits of solemn black , Nor windy suspiration of forced breath , No , nor the fruitful river in the eye , Nor the dejected ' havior of the visage , Together with all forms , moods , shapes of grief , That can denote me truly : these indeed seem , For they are actions that a man might play : But I have that within which passeth show ; These but the trappings and the suits of woe .
KING CLAUDIUS : ' Tis sweet and commendable in your nature , Hamlet , To give these mourning duties to your father : But , you must know , your father lost a father ; That father lost , lost his , and the survivor bound In filial obligation for some term To do obsequious sorrow : but to persever In obstinate condolement is a course Of impious stubbornness ; ' tis unmanly grief ; It shows a will most incorrect to heaven , A heart unfortified , a mind impatient , An understanding simple and unschool 'd : For what we know must be and is as common As any the most vulgar thing to sense , Why should we in our peevish opposition Take it to heart ? Fie ! ' tis a fault to heaven , A fault against the dead , a fault to nature , To reason most absurd : whose common theme Is death of fathers , and who still hath cried , From the first corse till he that died to-day , ' This must be so . ' We pray you , throw to earth This unprevailing woe , and think of us As of a father : for let the world take note , You are the most immediate to our throne ; And with no less nobility of love Than that which dearest father bears his son , Do I impart toward you . For your intent In going back to school in Wittenberg , It is most retrograde to our desire : And we beseech you , bend you to remain Here , in the cheer and comfort of our eye , Our chiefest courtier , cousin , and our son .
QUEEN GERTRUDE : Let not thy mother lose her prayers , Hamlet : I pray thee , stay with us ; go not to Wittenberg .
HAMLET : I shall in all my best obey you , madam .
KING CLAUDIUS : Why , ' tis a loving and a fair reply : Be as ourself in Denmark . Madam , come ; This gentle and unforced accord of Hamlet Sits smiling to my heart : in grace whereof , No jocund health that Denmark drinks to-day , But the great cannon to the clouds shall tell , And the king 's rouse the heavens all bruit again , Re-speaking earthly thunder . Come away .
