HORATIO : How was this seal 'd ?
HAMLET : Why , even in that was heaven ordinant . I had my father 's signet in my purse , Which was the model of that Danish seal ; Folded the writ up in form of the other , Subscribed it , gave 't the impression , placed it safely , The changeling never known . Now , the next day Was our sea-fight ; and what to this was sequent Thou know 'st already .
HORATIO : So Guildenstern and Rosencrantz go to 't .
HAMLET : Why , man , they did make love to this employment ; They are not near my conscience ; their defeat Does by their own insinuation grow : ' Tis dangerous when the baser nature comes Between the pass and fell incensed points Of mighty opposites .
HORATIO : Why , what a king is this !
HAMLET : Does it not , think 'st thee , stand me now upon-- He that hath kill 'd my king and whored my mother , Popp 'd in between the election and my hopes , Thrown out his angle for my proper life , And with such cozenage--is 't not perfect conscience , To quit him with this arm ? and is 't not to be damn 'd , To let this canker of our nature come In further evil ?
HORATIO : It must be shortly known to him from England What is the issue of the business there .
HAMLET : It will be short : the interim is mine ; And a man 's life 's no more than to say ' One . ' But I am very sorry , good Horatio , That to Laertes I forgot myself ; For , by the image of my cause , I see The portraiture of his : I 'll court his favours . But , sure , the bravery of his grief did put me Into a towering passion .
HORATIO : Peace ! who comes here ? Enter OSRIC
OSRIC : Your lordship is right welcome back to Denmark .
HAMLET : I humbly thank you , sir . Dost know this water-fly ?
HORATIO : No , my good lord .
HAMLET : Thy state is the more gracious ; for ' tis a vice to know him . He hath much land , and fertile : let a beast be lord of beasts , and his crib shall stand at the king 's mess : ' tis a chough ; but , as I say , spacious in the possession of dirt .
OSRIC : Sweet lord , if your lordship were at leisure , I should impart a thing to you from his majesty .
HAMLET : I will receive it , sir , with all diligence of spirit . Put your bonnet to his right use ; ' tis for the head .
OSRIC : I thank your lordship , it is very hot .
HAMLET : No , believe me , ' tis very cold ; the wind is northerly .
OSRIC : It is indifferent cold , my lord , indeed .
HAMLET : But yet methinks it is very sultry and hot for my complexion .
OSRIC : Exceedingly , my lord ; it is very sultry , --as ' twere , --I cannot tell how . But , my lord , his majesty bade me signify to you that he has laid a great wager on your head : sir , this is the matter , --
HAMLET : I beseech you , remember-- HAMLET moves him to put on his hat
OSRIC : Nay , good my lord ; for mine ease , in good faith . Sir , here is newly come to court Laertes ; believe me , an absolute gentleman , full of most excellent differences , of very soft society and great showing : indeed , to speak feelingly of him , he is the card or calendar of gentry , for you shall find in him the continent of what part a gentleman would see .
