ROSENCRANTZ : My lord , there was no such stuff in my thoughts .
HAMLET : Why did you laugh then , when I said ' man delights not me ' ?
ROSENCRANTZ : To think , my lord , if you delight not in man , what lenten entertainment the players shall receive from you : we coted them on the way ; and hither are they coming , to offer you service .
HAMLET : He that plays the king shall be welcome ; his majesty shall have tribute of me ; the adventurous knight shall use his foil and target ; the lover shall not sigh gratis ; the humourous man shall end his part in peace ; the clown shall make those laugh whose lungs are tickled o ' the sere ; and the lady shall say her mind freely , or the blank verse shall halt for 't . What players are they ?
ROSENCRANTZ : Even those you were wont to take delight in , the tragedians of the city .
HAMLET : How chances it they travel ? their residence , both in reputation and profit , was better both ways .
ROSENCRANTZ : I think their inhibition comes by the means of the late innovation .
HAMLET : Do they hold the same estimation they did when I was in the city ? are they so followed ?
ROSENCRANTZ : No , indeed , are they not .
HAMLET : How comes it ? do they grow rusty ?
ROSENCRANTZ : Nay , their endeavour keeps in the wonted pace : but there is , sir , an aery of children , little eyases , that cry out on the top of question , and are most tyrannically clapped for 't : these are now the fashion , and so berattle the common stages--so they call them--that many wearing rapiers are afraid of goose-quills and dare scarce come thither .
HAMLET : What , are they children ? who maintains ' em ? how are they escoted ? Will they pursue the quality no longer than they can sing ? will they not say afterwards , if they should grow themselves to common players--as it is most like , if their means are no better--their writers do them wrong , to make them exclaim against their own succession ?
ROSENCRANTZ : ' Faith , there has been much to do on both sides ; and the nation holds it no sin to tarre them to controversy : there was , for a while , no money bid for argument , unless the poet and the player went to cuffs in the question .
HAMLET : Is 't possible ?
GUILDENSTERN : O , there has been much throwing about of brains .
HAMLET : Do the boys carry it away ?
ROSENCRANTZ : Ay , that they do , my lord ; Hercules and his load too .
HAMLET : It is not very strange ; for mine uncle is king of Denmark , and those that would make mows at him while my father lived , give twenty , forty , fifty , an hundred ducats a-piece for his picture in little . ' Sblood , there is something in this more than natural , if philosophy could find it out . Flourish of trumpets within
GUILDENSTERN : There are the players .
HAMLET : Gentlemen , you are welcome to Elsinore . Your hands , come then : the appurtenance of welcome is fashion and ceremony : let me comply with you in this garb , lest my extent to the players , which , I tell you , must show fairly outward , should more appear like entertainment than yours . You are welcome : but my uncle-father and aunt-mother are deceived .
GUILDENSTERN : In what , my dear lord ?
HAMLET : I am but mad north-north-west : when the wind is southerly I know a hawk from a handsaw . Enter POLONIUS
LORD POLONIUS : Well be with you , gentlemen !
HAMLET : Hark you , Guildenstern ; and you too : at each ear a hearer : that great baby you see there is not yet out of his swaddling-clouts .
ROSENCRANTZ : Happily he 's the second time come to them ; for they say an old man is twice a child .
