HORATIO : A countenance more in sorrow than in anger .
HAMLET : Pale or red ?
HORATIO : Nay , very pale .
HAMLET : And fix 'd his eyes upon you ?
HORATIO : Most constantly .
HAMLET : I would I had been there .
HORATIO : It would have much amazed you .
HAMLET : Very like , very like . Stay 'd it long ?
HORATIO : While one with moderate haste might tell a hundred .
MARCELLUS BERNARDO : Longer , longer .
HORATIO : Not when I saw 't .
HAMLET : His beard was grizzled--no ?
HORATIO : It was , as I have seen it in his life , A sable silver 'd .
HAMLET : I will watch to-night ; Perchance ' twill walk again .
HORATIO : I warrant it will .
HAMLET : If it assume my noble father 's person , I 'll speak to it , though hell itself should gape And bid me hold my peace . I pray you all , If you have hitherto conceal 'd this sight , Let it be tenable in your silence still ; And whatsoever else shall hap to-night , Give it an understanding , but no tongue : I will requite your loves . So , fare you well : Upon the platform , ' twixt eleven and twelve , I 'll visit you .
All : Our duty to your honour .
HAMLET : Your loves , as mine to you : farewell . My father 's spirit in arms ! all is not well ; I doubt some foul play : would the night were come ! Till then sit still , my soul : foul deeds will rise , Though all the earth o 'erwhelm them , to men 's eyes . Exit Enter LAERTES and OPHELIA
LAERTES : My necessaries are embark 'd : farewell : And , sister , as the winds give benefit And convoy is assistant , do not sleep , But let me hear from you .
OPHELIA : Do you doubt that ?
LAERTES : For Hamlet and the trifling of his favour , Hold it a fashion and a toy in blood , A violet in the youth of primy nature , Forward , not permanent , sweet , not lasting , The perfume and suppliance of a minute ; No more .
OPHELIA : No more but so ?
LAERTES : Think it no more ; For nature , crescent , does not grow alone In thews and bulk , but , as this temple waxes , The inward service of the mind and soul Grows wide withal . Perhaps he loves you now , And now no soil nor cautel doth besmirch The virtue of his will : but you must fear , His greatness weigh 'd , his will is not his own ; For he himself is subject to his birth : He may not , as unvalued persons do , Carve for himself ; for on his choice depends The safety and health of this whole state ; And therefore must his choice be circumscribed Unto the voice and yielding of that body Whereof he is the head . Then if he says he loves you , It fits your wisdom so far to believe it As he in his particular act and place May give his saying deed ; which is no further Than the main voice of Denmark goes withal . Then weigh what loss your honour may sustain , If with too credent ear you list his songs , Or lose your heart , or your chaste treasure open To his unmaster 'd importunity . Fear it , Ophelia , fear it , my dear sister , And keep you in the rear of your affection , Out of the shot and danger of desire . The chariest maid is prodigal enough , If she unmask her beauty to the moon : Virtue itself ' scapes not calumnious strokes : The canker galls the infants of the spring , Too oft before their buttons be disclosed , And in the morn and liquid dew of youth Contagious blastments are most imminent . Be wary then ; best safety lies in fear : Youth to itself rebels , though none else near .
