LAERTES : What part is that , my lord ?
KING CLAUDIUS : A very riband in the cap of youth , Yet needful too ; for youth no less becomes The light and careless livery that it wears Than settled age his sables and his weeds , Importing health and graveness . Two months since , Here was a gentleman of Normandy : -- I 've seen myself , and served against , the French , And they can well on horseback : but this gallant Had witchcraft in 't ; he grew unto his seat ; And to such wondrous doing brought his horse , As he had been incorpsed and demi-natured With the brave beast : so far he topp 'd my thought , That I , in forgery of shapes and tricks , Come short of what he did .
LAERTES : A Norman was 't ?
KING CLAUDIUS : A Norman .
LAERTES : Upon my life , Lamond .
KING CLAUDIUS : The very same .
LAERTES : I know him well : he is the brooch indeed And gem of all the nation .
KING CLAUDIUS : He made confession of you , And gave you such a masterly report For art and exercise in your defence And for your rapier most especially , That he cried out , ' twould be a sight indeed , If one could match you : the scrimers of their nation , He swore , had had neither motion , guard , nor eye , If you opposed them . Sir , this report of his Did Hamlet so envenom with his envy That he could nothing do but wish and beg Your sudden coming o 'er , to play with him . Now , out of this , --
LAERTES : What out of this , my lord ?
KING CLAUDIUS : Laertes , was your father dear to you ? Or are you like the painting of a sorrow , A face without a heart ?
LAERTES : Why ask you this ?
KING CLAUDIUS : Not that I think you did not love your father ; But that I know love is begun by time ; And that I see , in passages of proof , Time qualifies the spark and fire of it . There lives within the very flame of love A kind of wick or snuff that will abate it ; And nothing is at a like goodness still ; For goodness , growing to a plurisy , Dies in his own too much : that we would do We should do when we would ; for this ' would ' changes And hath abatements and delays as many As there are tongues , are hands , are accidents ; And then this ' should ' is like a spendthrift sigh , That hurts by easing . But , to the quick o ' the ulcer : -- Hamlet comes back : what would you undertake , To show yourself your father 's son in deed More than in words ?
LAERTES : To cut his throat i ' the church .
KING CLAUDIUS : No place , indeed , should murder sanctuarize ; Revenge should have no bounds . But , good Laertes , Will you do this , keep close within your chamber . Hamlet return 'd shall know you are come home : We 'll put on those shall praise your excellence And set a double varnish on the fame The Frenchman gave you , bring you in fine together And wager on your heads : he , being remiss , Most generous and free from all contriving , Will not peruse the foils ; so that , with ease , Or with a little shuffling , you may choose A sword unbated , and in a pass of practise Requite him for your father .
LAERTES : I will do 't : And , for that purpose , I 'll anoint my sword . I bought an unction of a mountebank , So mortal that , but dip a knife in it , Where it draws blood no cataplasm so rare , Collected from all simples that have virtue Under the moon , can save the thing from death That is but scratch 'd withal : I 'll touch my point With this contagion , that , if I gall him slightly , It may be death .
