REYNALDO : Very good , my lord .
LORD POLONIUS : And then , sir , does he this--he does--what was I about to say ? By the mass , I was about to say something : where did I leave ?
REYNALDO : At ' closes in the consequence , ' at ' friend or so , ' and ' gentleman . ' 
LORD POLONIUS : At ' closes in the consequence , ' ay , marry ; He closes thus : ' I know the gentleman ; I saw him yesterday , or t ' other day , Or then , or then ; with such , or such ; and , as you say , There was a ' gaming ; there o 'ertook in 's rouse ; There falling out at tennis : ' or perchance , ' I saw him enter such a house of sale , ' Videlicet , a brothel , or so forth . See you now ; Your bait of falsehood takes this carp of truth : And thus do we of wisdom and of reach , With windlasses and with assays of bias , By indirections find directions out : So by my former lecture and advice , Shall you my son . You have me , have you not ?
REYNALDO : My lord , I have .
LORD POLONIUS : God be wi ' you ; fare you well .
REYNALDO : Good my lord !
LORD POLONIUS : Observe his inclination in yourself .
REYNALDO : I shall , my lord .
LORD POLONIUS : And let him ply his music .
REYNALDO : Well , my lord .
LORD POLONIUS : Farewell ! Exit REYNALDO Enter OPHELIA How now , Ophelia ! what 's the matter ?
OPHELIA : O , my lord , my lord , I have been so affrighted !
LORD POLONIUS : With what , i ' the name of God ?
OPHELIA : My lord , as I was sewing in my closet , Lord Hamlet , with his doublet all unbraced ; No hat upon his head ; his stockings foul 'd , Ungarter 'd , and down-gyved to his ancle ; Pale as his shirt ; his knees knocking each other ; And with a look so piteous in purport As if he had been loosed out of hell To speak of horrors , --he comes before me .
LORD POLONIUS : Mad for thy love ?
OPHELIA : My lord , I do not know ; But truly , I do fear it .
LORD POLONIUS : What said he ?
OPHELIA : He took me by the wrist and held me hard ; Then goes he to the length of all his arm ; And , with his other hand thus o 'er his brow , He falls to such perusal of my face As he would draw it . Long stay 'd he so ; At last , a little shaking of mine arm And thrice his head thus waving up and down , He raised a sigh so piteous and profound As it did seem to shatter all his bulk And end his being : that done , he lets me go : And , with his head over his shoulder turn 'd , He seem 'd to find his way without his eyes ; For out o ' doors he went without their helps , And , to the last , bended their light on me .
LORD POLONIUS : Come , go with me : I will go seek the king . This is the very ecstasy of love , Whose violent property fordoes itself And leads the will to desperate undertakings As oft as any passion under heaven That does afflict our natures . I am sorry . What , have you given him any hard words of late ?
OPHELIA : No , my good lord , but , as you did command , I did repel his fetters and denied His access to me .
