KING CLAUDIUS : Love ! his affections do not that way tend ; Nor what he spake , though it lack 'd form a little , Was not like madness . There 's something in his soul , O 'er which his melancholy sits on brood ; And I do doubt the hatch and the disclose Will be some danger : which for to prevent , I have in quick determination Thus set it down : he shall with speed to England , For the demand of our neglected tribute Haply the seas and countries different With variable objects shall expel This something-settled matter in his heart , Whereon his brains still beating puts him thus From fashion of himself . What think you on 't ?
LORD POLONIUS : It shall do well : but yet do I believe The origin and commencement of his grief Sprung from neglected love . How now , Ophelia ! You need not tell us what Lord Hamlet said ; We heard it all . My lord , do as you please ; But , if you hold it fit , after the play Let his queen mother all alone entreat him To show his grief : let her be round with him ; And I 'll be placed , so please you , in the ear Of all their conference . If she find him not , To England send him , or confine him where Your wisdom best shall think .
KING CLAUDIUS : It shall be so : Madness in great ones must not unwatch 'd go . Enter HAMLET and Players
HAMLET : Speak the speech , I pray you , as I pronounced it to you , trippingly on the tongue : but if you mouth it , as many of your players do , I had as lief the town-crier spoke my lines . Nor do not saw the air too much with your hand , thus , but use all gently ; for in the very torrent , tempest , and , as I may say , the whirlwind of passion , you must acquire and beget a temperance that may give it smoothness . O , it offends me to the soul to hear a robustious periwig-pated fellow tear a passion to tatters , to very rags , to split the ears of the groundlings , who for the most part are capable of nothing but inexplicable dumbshows and noise : I would have such a fellow whipped for o 'erdoing Termagant ; it out-herods Herod : pray you , avoid it .
First Player : I warrant your honour .
HAMLET : Be not too tame neither , but let your own discretion be your tutor : suit the action to the word , the word to the action ; with this special o 'erstep not the modesty of nature : for any thing so overdone is from the purpose of playing , whose end , both at the first and now , was and is , to hold , as ' twere , the mirror up to nature ; to show virtue her own feature , scorn her own image , and the very age and body of the time his form and pressure . Now this overdone , or come tardy off , though it make the unskilful laugh , cannot but make the judicious grieve ; the censure of the which one must in your allowance o 'erweigh a whole theatre of others . O , there be players that I have seen play , and heard others praise , and that highly , not to speak it profanely , that , neither having the accent of Christians nor the gait of Christian , pagan , nor man , have so strutted and bellowed that I have thought some of nature 's journeymen had made men and not made them well , they imitated humanity so abominably .
First Player : I hope we have reformed that indifferently with us , sir .
