KING CLAUDIUS : It likes us well ; And at our more consider 'd time well read , Answer , and think upon this business . Meantime we thank you for your well-took labour : Go to your rest ; at night we 'll feast together : Most welcome home !
LORD POLONIUS : This business is well ended . My liege , and madam , to expostulate What majesty should be , what duty is , Why day is day , night night , and time is time , Were nothing but to waste night , day and time . Therefore , since brevity is the soul of wit , And tediousness the limbs and outward flourishes , I will be brief : your noble son is mad : Mad call I it ; for , to define true madness , What is 't but to be nothing else but mad ? But let that go .
QUEEN GERTRUDE : More matter , with less art .
LORD POLONIUS : Madam , I swear I use no art at all . That he is mad , ' tis true : ' tis true ' tis pity ; And pity ' tis ' tis true : a foolish figure ; But farewell it , for I will use no art . Mad let us grant him , then : and now remains That we find out the cause of this effect , Or rather say , the cause of this defect , For this effect defective comes by cause : Thus it remains , and the remainder thus . Perpend . I have a daughter--have while she is mine-- Who , in her duty and obedience , mark , Hath given me this : now gather , and surmise . Reads ' To the celestial and my soul 's idol , the most beautified Ophelia , ' -- That 's an ill phrase , a vile phrase ; ' beautified ' is a vile phrase : but you shall hear . Thus : Reads ' In her excellent white bosom , these , & c . ' 
QUEEN GERTRUDE : Came this from Hamlet to her ?
LORD POLONIUS : Good madam , stay awhile ; I will be faithful . Reads ' Doubt thou the stars are fire ; Doubt that the sun doth move ; Doubt truth to be a liar ; But never doubt I love . ' O dear Ophelia , I am ill at these numbers ; I have not art to reckon my groans : but that I love thee best , O most best , believe it . Adieu . ' Thine evermore most dear lady , whilst this machine is to him , HAMLET . ' This , in obedience , hath my daughter shown me , And more above , hath his solicitings , As they fell out by time , by means and place , All given to mine ear .
KING CLAUDIUS : But how hath she Received his love ?
LORD POLONIUS : What do you think of me ?
KING CLAUDIUS : As of a man faithful and honourable .
LORD POLONIUS : I would fain prove so . But what might you think , When I had seen this hot love on the wing-- As I perceived it , I must tell you that , Before my daughter told me--what might you , Or my dear majesty your queen here , think , If I had play 'd the desk or table-book , Or given my heart a winking , mute and dumb , Or look 'd upon this love with idle sight ; What might you think ? No , I went round to work , And my young mistress thus I did bespeak : ' Lord Hamlet is a prince , out of thy star ; This must not be : ' and then I precepts gave her , That she should lock herself from his resort , Admit no messengers , receive no tokens . Which done , she took the fruits of my advice ; And he , repulsed--a short tale to make-- Fell into a sadness , then into a fast , Thence to a watch , thence into a weakness , Thence to a lightness , and , by this declension , Into the madness wherein now he raves , And all we mourn for .
KING CLAUDIUS : Do you think ' tis this ?
QUEEN GERTRUDE : It may be , very likely .
