QUEEN GERTRUDE : What have I done , that thou darest wag thy tongue In noise so rude against me ?
HAMLET : Such an act That blurs the grace and blush of modesty , Calls virtue hypocrite , takes off the rose From the fair forehead of an innocent love And sets a blister there , makes marriage-vows As false as dicers ' oaths : O , such a deed As from the body of contraction plucks The very soul , and sweet religion makes A rhapsody of words : heaven 's face doth glow : Yea , this solidity and compound mass , With tristful visage , as against the doom , Is thought-sick at the act .
QUEEN GERTRUDE : Ay me , what act , That roars so loud , and thunders in the index ?
HAMLET : Look here , upon this picture , and on this , The counterfeit presentment of two brothers . See , what a grace was seated on this brow ; Hyperion 's curls ; the front of Jove himself ; An eye like Mars , to threaten and command ; A station like the herald Mercury New-lighted on a heaven-kissing hill ; A combination and a form indeed , Where every god did seem to set his seal , To give the world assurance of a man : This was your husband . Look you now , what follows : Here is your husband ; like a mildew 'd ear , Blasting his wholesome brother . Have you eyes ? Could you on this fair mountain leave to feed , And batten on this moor ? Ha ! have you eyes ? You cannot call it love ; for at your age The hey-day in the blood is tame , it 's humble , And waits upon the judgment : and what judgment Would step from this to this ? Sense , sure , you have , Else could you not have motion ; but sure , that sense Is apoplex 'd ; for madness would not err , Nor sense to ecstasy was ne 'er so thrall 'd But it reserved some quantity of choice , To serve in such a difference . What devil was 't That thus hath cozen 'd you at hoodman-blind ? Eyes without feeling , feeling without sight , Ears without hands or eyes , smelling sans all , Or but a sickly part of one true sense Could not so mope . O shame ! where is thy blush ? Rebellious hell , If thou canst mutine in a matron 's bones , To flaming youth let virtue be as wax , And melt in her own fire : proclaim no shame When the compulsive ardour gives the charge , Since frost itself as actively doth burn And reason panders will .
QUEEN GERTRUDE : O Hamlet , speak no more : Thou turn 'st mine eyes into my very soul ; And there I see such black and grained spots As will not leave their tinct .
HAMLET : Nay , but to live In the rank sweat of an enseamed bed , Stew 'd in corruption , honeying and making love Over the nasty sty , --
QUEEN GERTRUDE : O , speak to me no more ; These words , like daggers , enter in mine ears ; No more , sweet Hamlet !
HAMLET : A murderer and a villain ; A slave that is not twentieth part the tithe Of your precedent lord ; a vice of kings ; A cutpurse of the empire and the rule , That from a shelf the precious diadem stole , And put it in his pocket !
QUEEN GERTRUDE : No more !
HAMLET : A king of shreds and patches , -- Enter Ghost Save me , and hover o 'er me with your wings , You heavenly guards ! What would your gracious figure ?
QUEEN GERTRUDE : Alas , he 's mad !
HAMLET : Do you not come your tardy son to chide , That , lapsed in time and passion , lets go by The important acting of your dread command ? O , say !
Ghost : Do not forget : this visitation Is but to whet thy almost blunted purpose . But , look , amazement on thy mother sits : O , step between her and her fighting soul : Conceit in weakest bodies strongest works : Speak to her , Hamlet .
