First Player : Ay , my lord .
HAMLET : Very well . Follow that lord ; and look you mock him not . Exit First Player My good friends , I 'll leave you till night : you are welcome to Elsinore .
ROSENCRANTZ : Good my lord !
HAMLET : Ay , so , God be wi ' ye ; Now I am alone . O , what a rogue and peasant slave am I ! Is it not monstrous that this player here , But in a fiction , in a dream of passion , Could force his soul so to his own conceit That from her working all his visage wann 'd , Tears in his eyes , distraction in 's aspect , A broken voice , and his whole function suiting With forms to his conceit ? and all for nothing ! For Hecuba ! What 's Hecuba to him , or he to Hecuba , That he should weep for her ? What would he do , Had he the motive and the cue for passion That I have ? He would drown the stage with tears And cleave the general ear with horrid speech , Make mad the guilty and appal the free , Confound the ignorant , and amaze indeed The very faculties of eyes and ears . Yet I , A dull and muddy-mettled rascal , peak , Like John-a-dreams , unpregnant of my cause , And can say nothing ; no , not for a king , Upon whose property and most dear life A damn 'd defeat was made . Am I a coward ? Who calls me villain ? breaks my pate across ? Plucks off my beard , and blows it in my face ? Tweaks me by the nose ? gives me the lie i ' the throat , As deep as to the lungs ? who does me this ? Ha ! ' Swounds , I should take it : for it cannot be But I am pigeon-liver 'd and lack gall To make oppression bitter , or ere this I should have fatted all the region kites With this slave 's offal : bloody , bawdy villain ! Remorseless , treacherous , lecherous , kindless villain ! O , vengeance ! Why , what an ass am I ! This is most brave , That I , the son of a dear father murder 'd , Prompted to my revenge by heaven and hell , Must , like a whore , unpack my heart with words , And fall a-cursing , like a very drab , A scullion ! Fie upon 't ! foh ! About , my brain ! I have heard That guilty creatures sitting at a play Have by the very cunning of the scene Been struck so to the soul that presently They have proclaim 'd their malefactions ; For murder , though it have no tongue , will speak With most miraculous organ . I 'll have these players Play something like the murder of my father Before mine uncle : I 'll observe his looks ; I 'll tent him to the quick : if he but blench , I know my course . The spirit that I have seen May be the devil : and the devil hath power To assume a pleasing shape ; yea , and perhaps Out of my weakness and my melancholy , As he is very potent with such spirits , Abuses me to damn me : I 'll have grounds More relative than this : the play ' s the thing Wherein I 'll catch the conscience of the king . Exit Enter KING CLAUDIUS , QUEEN GERTRUDE , POLONIUS , OPHELIA , ROSENCRANTZ , and GUILDENSTERN
KING CLAUDIUS : And can you , by no drift of circumstance , Get from him why he puts on this confusion , Grating so harshly all his days of quiet With turbulent and dangerous lunacy ?
ROSENCRANTZ : He does confess he feels himself distracted ; But from what cause he will by no means speak .
GUILDENSTERN : Nor do we find him forward to be sounded , But , with a crafty madness , keeps aloof , When we would bring him on to some confession Of his true state .
QUEEN GERTRUDE : Did he receive you well ?
ROSENCRANTZ : Most like a gentleman .
GUILDENSTERN : But with much forcing of his disposition .
