OPHELIA : Nay , ' tis twice two months , my lord .
HAMLET : So long ? Nay then , let the devil wear black , for I 'll have a suit of sables . O heavens ! die two months ago , and not forgotten yet ? Then there 's hope a great man 's memory may outlive his life half a year : but , by 'r lady , he must build churches , then ; or else shall he suffer not thinking on , with the hobby-horse , whose epitaph is ' For , O , for , O , the hobby-horse is forgot . ' Hautboys play . The dumb-show enters Enter a King and a Queen very lovingly ; the Queen embracing him , and he her . She kneels , and makes show of protestation unto him . He takes her up , and declines his head upon her neck : lays him down upon a bank of flowers : she , seeing him asleep , leaves him . Anon comes in a fellow , takes off his crown , kisses it , and pours poison in the King 's ears , and exit . The Queen returns ; finds the King dead , and makes passionate action . The Poisoner , with some two or three Mutes , comes in again , seeming to lament with her . The dead body is carried away . The Poisoner wooes the Queen with gifts : she seems loath and unwilling awhile , but in the end accepts his love
OPHELIA : What means this , my lord ?
HAMLET : Marry , this is miching mallecho ; it means mischief .
OPHELIA : Belike this show imports the argument of the play . Enter Prologue
HAMLET : We shall know by this fellow : the players cannot keep counsel ; they 'll tell all .
OPHELIA : Will he tell us what this show meant ?
HAMLET : Ay , or any show that you 'll show him : be not you ashamed to show , he 'll not shame to tell you what it means .
OPHELIA : You are naught , you are naught : I 'll mark the play .
Prologue : For us , and for our tragedy , Here stooping to your clemency , We beg your hearing patiently . Exit
HAMLET : Is this a prologue , or the posy of a ring ?
OPHELIA : ' Tis brief , my lord .
HAMLET : As woman 's love . Enter two Players , King and Queen
Player King : Full thirty times hath Phoebus ' cart gone round Neptune 's salt wash and Tellus ' orbed ground , And thirty dozen moons with borrow 'd sheen About the world have times twelve thirties been , Since love our hearts and Hymen did our hands Unite commutual in most sacred bands .
Player Queen : So many journeys may the sun and moon Make us again count o 'er ere love be done ! But , woe is me , you are so sick of late , So far from cheer and from your former state , That I distrust you . Yet , though I distrust , Discomfort you , my lord , it nothing must : For women 's fear and love holds quantity ; In neither aught , or in extremity . Now , what my love is , proof hath made you know ; And as my love is sized , my fear is so : Where love is great , the littlest doubts are fear ; Where little fears grow great , great love grows there .
Player King : ' Faith , I must leave thee , love , and shortly too ; My operant powers their functions leave to do : And thou shalt live in this fair world behind , Honour 'd , beloved ; and haply one as kind For husband shalt thou--
Player Queen : O , confound the rest ! Such love must needs be treason in my breast : In second husband let me be accurst ! None wed the second but who kill 'd the first .
HAMLET : Wormwood , wormwood .
Player Queen : The instances that second marriage move Are base respects of thrift , but none of love : A second time I kill my husband dead , When second husband kisses me in bed .
