KING CLAUDIUS : Now must your conscience my acquaintance seal , And you must put me in your heart for friend , Sith you have heard , and with a knowing ear , That he which hath your noble father slain Pursued my life .
LAERTES : It well appears : but tell me Why you proceeded not against these feats , So crimeful and so capital in nature , As by your safety , wisdom , all things else , You mainly were stirr 'd up .
KING CLAUDIUS : O , for two special reasons ; Which may to you , perhaps , seem much unsinew 'd , But yet to me they are strong . The queen his mother Lives almost by his looks ; and for myself-- My virtue or my plague , be it either which-- She 's so conjunctive to my life and soul , That , as the star moves not but in his sphere , I could not but by her . The other motive , Why to a public count I might not go , Is the great love the general gender bear him ; Who , dipping all his faults in their affection , Would , like the spring that turneth wood to stone , Convert his gyves to graces ; so that my arrows , Too slightly timber 'd for so loud a wind , Would have reverted to my bow again , And not where I had aim 'd them .
LAERTES : And so have I a noble father lost ; A sister driven into desperate terms , Whose worth , if praises may go back again , Stood challenger on mount of all the age For her perfections : but my revenge will come .
KING CLAUDIUS : Break not your sleeps for that : you must not think That we are made of stuff so flat and dull That we can let our beard be shook with danger And think it pastime . You shortly shall hear more : I loved your father , and we love ourself ; And that , I hope , will teach you to imagine-- Enter a Messenger How now ! what news ?
Messenger : Letters , my lord , from Hamlet : This to your majesty ; this to the queen .
KING CLAUDIUS : From Hamlet ! who brought them ?
Messenger : Sailors , my lord , they say ; I saw them not : They were given me by Claudio ; he received them Of him that brought them .
KING CLAUDIUS : Laertes , you shall hear them . Leave us . Exit Messenger Reads ' High and mighty , You shall know I am set naked on your kingdom . To-morrow shall I beg leave to see your kingly eyes : when I shall , first asking your pardon thereunto , recount the occasion of my sudden and more strange return . ' HAMLET . ' What should this mean ? Are all the rest come back ? Or is it some abuse , and no such thing ?
LAERTES : Know you the hand ?
KING CLAUDIUS : ' Tis Hamlets character . ' Naked ! And in a postscript here , he says ' alone . ' Can you advise me ?
LAERTES : I 'm lost in it , my lord . But let him come ; It warms the very sickness in my heart , That I shall live and tell him to his teeth , ' Thus didest thou . ' 
KING CLAUDIUS : If it be so , Laertes-- As how should it be so ? how otherwise ? -- Will you be ruled by me ?
LAERTES : Ay , my lord ; So you will not o 'errule me to a peace .
KING CLAUDIUS : To thine own peace . If he be now return 'd , As checking at his voyage , and that he means No more to undertake it , I will work him To an exploit , now ripe in my device , Under the which he shall not choose but fall : And for his death no wind of blame shall breathe , But even his mother shall uncharge the practise And call it accident .
LAERTES : My lord , I will be ruled ; The rather , if you could devise it so That I might be the organ .
