HORATIO : So have I heard and do in part believe it . But , look , the morn , in russet mantle clad , Walks o 'er the dew of yon high eastward hill : Break we our watch up ; and by my advice , Let us impart what we have seen to-night Unto young Hamlet ; for , upon my life , This spirit , dumb to us , will speak to him . Do you consent we shall acquaint him with it , As needful in our loves , fitting our duty ?
MARCELLUS : Let 's do 't , I pray ; and I this morning know Where we shall find him most conveniently . Enter KING CLAUDIUS , QUEEN GERTRUDE , HAMLET , POLONIUS , LAERTES , VOLTIMAND , CORNELIUS , Lords , and Attendants
KING CLAUDIUS : Though yet of Hamlet our dear brother 's death The memory be green , and that it us befitted To bear our hearts in grief and our whole kingdom To be contracted in one brow of woe , Yet so far hath discretion fought with nature That we with wisest sorrow think on him , Together with remembrance of ourselves . Therefore our sometime sister , now our queen , The imperial jointress to this warlike state , Have we , as ' twere with a defeated joy , -- With an auspicious and a dropping eye , With mirth in funeral and with dirge in marriage , In equal scale weighing delight and dole , -- Taken to wife : nor have we herein barr 'd Your better wisdoms , which have freely gone With this affair along . For all , our thanks . Now follows , that you know , young Fortinbras , Holding a weak supposal of our worth , Or thinking by our late dear brother 's death Our state to be disjoint and out of frame , Colleagued with the dream of his advantage , He hath not fail 'd to pester us with message , Importing the surrender of those lands Lost by his father , with all bonds of law , To our most valiant brother . So much for him . Now for ourself and for this time of meeting : Thus much the business is : we have here writ To Norway , uncle of young Fortinbras , -- Who , impotent and bed-rid , scarcely hears Of this his nephew 's purpose , --to suppress His further gait herein ; in that the levies , The lists and full proportions , are all made Out of his subject : and we here dispatch You , good Cornelius , and you , Voltimand , For bearers of this greeting to old Norway ; Giving to you no further personal power To business with the king , more than the scope Of these delated articles allow . Farewell , and let your haste commend your duty .
CORNELIUS VOLTIMAND : In that and all things will we show our duty .
KING CLAUDIUS : We doubt it nothing : heartily farewell . And now , Laertes , what 's the news with you ? You told us of some suit ; what is 't , Laertes ? You cannot speak of reason to the Dane , And loose your voice : what wouldst thou beg , Laertes , That shall not be my offer , not thy asking ? The head is not more native to the heart , The hand more instrumental to the mouth , Than is the throne of Denmark to thy father . What wouldst thou have , Laertes ?
LAERTES : My dread lord , Your leave and favour to return to France ; From whence though willingly I came to Denmark , To show my duty in your coronation , Yet now , I must confess , that duty done , My thoughts and wishes bend again toward France And bow them to your gracious leave and pardon .
KING CLAUDIUS : Have you your father 's leave ? What says Polonius ?
LORD POLONIUS : He hath , my lord , wrung from me my slow leave By laboursome petition , and at last Upon his will I seal 'd my hard consent : I do beseech you , give him leave to go .
