LORD POLONIUS : ' Fore God , my lord , well spoken , with good accent and good discretion .
First Player : ' Anon he finds him Striking too short at Greeks ; his antique sword , Rebellious to his arm , lies where it falls , Repugnant to command : unequal match 'd , Pyrrhus at Priam drives ; in rage strikes wide ; But with the whiff and wind of his fell sword The unnerved father falls . Then senseless Ilium , Seeming to feel this blow , with flaming top Stoops to his base , and with a hideous crash Takes prisoner Pyrrhus ' ear : for , lo ! his sword , Which was declining on the milky head Of reverend Priam , seem 'd i ' the air to stick : So , as a painted tyrant , Pyrrhus stood , And like a neutral to his will and matter , Did nothing . But , as we often see , against some storm , A silence in the heavens , the rack stand still , The bold winds speechless and the orb below As hush as death , anon the dreadful thunder Doth rend the region , so , after Pyrrhus ' pause , Aroused vengeance sets him new a-work ; And never did the Cyclops ' hammers fall On Mars 's armour forged for proof eterne With less remorse than Pyrrhus ' bleeding sword Now falls on Priam . Out , out , thou strumpet , Fortune ! All you gods , In general synod ' take away her power ; Break all the spokes and fellies from her wheel , And bowl the round nave down the hill of heaven , As low as to the fiends ! '
LORD POLONIUS : This is too long .
HAMLET : It shall to the barber 's , with your beard . Prithee , say on : he 's for a jig or a tale of bawdry , or he sleeps : say on : come to Hecuba .
First Player : ' But who , O , who had seen the mobled queen--'
HAMLET : ' The mobled queen ? '
LORD POLONIUS : That 's good ; ' mobled queen ' is good .
First Player : ' Run barefoot up and down , threatening the flames With bisson rheum ; a clout upon that head Where late the diadem stood , and for a robe , About her lank and all o 'er-teemed loins , A blanket , in the alarm of fear caught up ; Who this had seen , with tongue in venom steep 'd , ' Gainst Fortune 's state would treason have pronounced : But if the gods themselves did see her then When she saw Pyrrhus make malicious sport In mincing with his sword her husband 's limbs , The instant burst of clamour that she made , Unless things mortal move them not at all , Would have made milch the burning eyes of heaven , And passion in the gods . ' 
LORD POLONIUS : Look , whether he has not turned his colour and has tears in 's eyes . Pray you , no more .
HAMLET : ' Tis well : I 'll have thee speak out the rest soon . Good my lord , will you see the players well bestowed ? Do you hear , let them be well used ; for they are the abstract and brief chronicles of the time : after your death you were better have a bad epitaph than their ill report while you live .
LORD POLONIUS : My lord , I will use them according to their desert .
HAMLET : God 's bodykins , man , much better : use every man after his desert , and who should ' scape whipping ? Use them after your own honour and dignity : the less they deserve , the more merit is in your bounty . Take them in .
LORD POLONIUS : Come , sirs .
HAMLET : Follow him , friends : we 'll hear a play to-morrow . Exit POLONIUS with all the Players but the First Dost thou hear me , old friend ; can you play the Murder of Gonzago ?
First Player : Ay , my lord .
