Player Queen : Nor earth to me give food , nor heaven light ! Sport and repose lock from me day and night ! To desperation turn my trust and hope ! An anchor 's cheer in prison be my scope ! Each opposite that blanks the face of joy Meet what I would have well and it destroy ! Both here and hence pursue me lasting strife , If , once a widow , ever I be wife !
HAMLET : If she should break it now !
Player King : ' Tis deeply sworn . Sweet , leave me here awhile ; My spirits grow dull , and fain I would beguile The tedious day with sleep . Sleeps
Player Queen : Sleep rock thy brain , And never come mischance between us twain ! Exit
HAMLET : Madam , how like you this play ?
QUEEN GERTRUDE : The lady protests too much , methinks .
HAMLET : O , but she 'll keep her word .
KING CLAUDIUS : Have you heard the argument ? Is there no offence in ' t ?
HAMLET : No , no , they do but jest , poison in jest ; no offence i ' the world .
KING CLAUDIUS : What do you call the play ?
HAMLET : The Mouse-trap . Marry , how ? Tropically . This play is the image of a murder done in Vienna : Gonzago is the duke 's name ; his wife , Baptista : you shall see anon ; ' tis a knavish piece of work : but what o ' that ? your majesty and we that have free souls , it touches us not : let the galled jade wince , our withers are unwrung . Enter LUCIANUS This is one Lucianus , nephew to the king .
OPHELIA : You are as good as a chorus , my lord .
HAMLET : I could interpret between you and your love , if I could see the puppets dallying .
OPHELIA : You are keen , my lord , you are keen .
HAMLET : It would cost you a groaning to take off my edge .
OPHELIA : Still better , and worse .
HAMLET : So you must take your husbands . Begin , murderer ; pox , leave thy damnable faces , and begin . Come : ' the croaking raven doth bellow for revenge . ' 
LUCIANUS : Thoughts black , hands apt , drugs fit , and time agreeing ; Confederate season , else no creature seeing ; Thou mixture rank , of midnight weeds collected , With Hecate 's ban thrice blasted , thrice infected , Thy natural magic and dire property , On wholesome life usurp immediately . Pours the poison into the sleeper 's ears
HAMLET : He poisons him i ' the garden for 's estate . His name 's Gonzago : the story is extant , and writ in choice Italian : you shall see anon how the murderer gets the love of Gonzago 's wife .
OPHELIA : The king rises .
HAMLET : What , frighted with false fire !
QUEEN GERTRUDE : How fares my lord ?
LORD POLONIUS : Give o 'er the play .
KING CLAUDIUS : Give me some light : away !
All : Lights , lights , lights !
HAMLET : Why , let the stricken deer go weep , The hart ungalled play ; For some must watch , while some must sleep : So runs the world away . Would not this , sir , and a forest of feathers-- if the rest of my fortunes turn Turk with me--with two Provincial roses on my razed shoes , get me a fellowship in a cry of players , sir ?
HORATIO : Half a share .
HAMLET : A whole one , I. For thou dost know , O Damon dear , This realm dismantled was Of Jove himself ; and now reigns here A very , very--pajock .
HORATIO : You might have rhymed .
HAMLET : O good Horatio , I 'll take the ghost 's word for a thousand pound . Didst perceive ?
HORATIO : Very well , my lord .
HAMLET : Upon the talk of the poisoning ?
HORATIO : I did very well note him .
