HORATIO : That can I ; At least , the whisper goes so . Our last king , Whose image even but now appear 'd to us , Was , as you know , by Fortinbras of Norway , Thereto prick 'd on by a most emulate pride , Dared to the combat ; in which our valiant Hamlet-- For so this side of our known world esteem 'd him-- Did slay this Fortinbras ; who by a seal 'd compact , Well ratified by law and heraldry , Did forfeit , with his life , all those his lands Which he stood seized of , to the conqueror : Against the which , a moiety competent Was gaged by our king ; which had return 'd To the inheritance of Fortinbras , Had he been vanquisher ; as , by the same covenant , And carriage of the article design 'd , His fell to Hamlet . Now , sir , young Fortinbras , Of unimproved mettle hot and full , Hath in the skirts of Norway here and there Shark 'd up a list of lawless resolutes , For food and diet , to some enterprise That hath a stomach in 't ; which is no other-- As it doth well appear unto our state-- But to recover of us , by strong hand And terms compulsatory , those foresaid lands So by his father lost : and this , I take it , Is the main motive of our preparations , The source of this our watch and the chief head Of this post-haste and romage in the land .
BERNARDO : I think it be no other but e 'en so : Well may it sort that this portentous figure Comes armed through our watch ; so like the king That was and is the question of these wars .
HORATIO : A mote it is to trouble the mind 's eye . In the most high and palmy state of Rome , A little ere the mightiest Julius fell , The graves stood tenantless and the sheeted dead Did squeak and gibber in the Roman streets : As stars with trains of fire and dews of blood , Disasters in the sun ; and the moist star Upon whose influence Neptune 's empire stands Was sick almost to doomsday with eclipse : And even the like precurse of fierce events , As harbingers preceding still the fates And prologue to the omen coming on , Have heaven and earth together demonstrated Unto our climatures and countrymen.-- But soft , behold ! lo , where it comes again ! Re-enter Ghost I 'll cross it , though it blast me . Stay , illusion ! If thou hast any sound , or use of voice , Speak to me : If there be any good thing to be done , That may to thee do ease and grace to me , Speak to me : Cock crows If thou art privy to thy country 's fate , Which , happily , foreknowing may avoid , O , speak ! Or if thou hast uphoarded in thy life Extorted treasure in the womb of earth , For which , they say , you spirits oft walk in death , Speak of it : stay , and speak ! Stop it , Marcellus .
MARCELLUS : Shall I strike at it with my partisan ?
HORATIO : Do , if it will not stand .
BERNARDO : ' Tis here !
HORATIO : ' Tis here !
MARCELLUS : ' Tis gone ! Exit Ghost We do it wrong , being so majestical , To offer it the show of violence ; For it is , as the air , invulnerable , And our vain blows malicious mockery .
BERNARDO : It was about to speak , when the cock crew .
HORATIO : And then it started like a guilty thing Upon a fearful summons . I have heard , The cock , that is the trumpet to the morn , Doth with his lofty and shrill-sounding throat Awake the god of day ; and , at his warning , Whether in sea or fire , in earth or air , The extravagant and erring spirit hies To his confine : and of the truth herein This present object made probation .
