COUNTESS : Wilt thou needs be a beggar ?
Clown : I do beg your good will in this case .
COUNTESS : In what case ?
Clown : In Isbel 's case and mine own . Service is no heritage : and I think I shall never have the blessing of God till I have issue o ' my body ; for they say barnes are blessings .
COUNTESS : Tell me thy reason why thou wilt marry .
Clown : My poor body , madam , requires it : I am driven on by the flesh ; and he must needs go that the devil drives .
COUNTESS : Is this all your worship 's reason ?
Clown : Faith , madam , I have other holy reasons such as they are .
COUNTESS : May the world know them ?
Clown : I have been , madam , a wicked creature , as you and all flesh and blood are ; and , indeed , I do marry that I may repent .
COUNTESS : Thy marriage , sooner than thy wickedness .
Clown : I am out o ' friends , madam ; and I hope to have friends for my wife 's sake .
COUNTESS : Such friends are thine enemies , knave .
Clown : You 're shallow , madam , in great friends ; for the knaves come to do that for me which I am aweary of . He that ears my land spares my team and gives me leave to in the crop ; if I be his cuckold , he 's my drudge : he that comforts my wife is the cherisher of my flesh and blood ; he that cherishes my flesh and blood loves my flesh and blood ; he that loves my flesh and blood is my friend : ergo , he that kisses my wife is my friend . If men could be contented to be what they are , there were no fear in marriage ; for young Charbon the Puritan and old Poysam the Papist , howsome 'er their hearts are severed in religion , their heads are both one ; they may jowl horns together , like any deer i ' the herd .
COUNTESS : Wilt thou ever be a foul-mouthed and calumnious knave ?
Clown : A prophet I , madam ; and I speak the truth the next way : For I the ballad will repeat , Which men full true shall find ; Your marriage comes by destiny , Your cuckoo sings by kind .
COUNTESS : Get you gone , sir ; I 'll talk with you more anon .
Steward : May it please you , madam , that he bid Helen come to you : of her I am to speak .
COUNTESS : Sirrah , tell my gentlewoman I would speak with her ; Helen , I mean .
Clown : Was this fair face the cause , quoth she , Why the Grecians sacked Troy ? Fond done , done fond , Was this King Priam 's joy ? With that she sighed as she stood , With that she sighed as she stood , And gave this sentence then ; Among nine bad if one be good , Among nine bad if one be good , There 's yet one good in ten .
COUNTESS : What , one good in ten ? you corrupt the song , sirrah .
Clown : One good woman in ten , madam ; which is a purifying o ' the song : would God would serve the world so all the year ! we 'ld find no fault with the tithe-woman , if I were the parson . One in ten , quoth a ' ! An we might have a good woman born but one every blazing star , or at an earthquake , ' twould mend the lottery well : a man may draw his heart out , ere a ' pluck one .
COUNTESS : You 'll be gone , sir knave , and do as I command you .
Clown : That man should be at woman 's command , and yet no hurt done ! Though honesty be no puritan , yet it will do no hurt ; it will wear the surplice of humility over the black gown of a big heart . I am going , forsooth : the business is for Helen to come hither . Exit
COUNTESS : Well , now .
