Second Lord : I will never trust a man again for keeping his sword clean. nor believe he can have every thing in him by wearing his apparel neatly .
First Soldier : Well , that 's set down .
PAROLLES : Five or six thousand horse , I said , -- I will say true , --or thereabouts , set down , for I 'll speak truth .
First Lord : He 's very near the truth in this .
BERTRAM : But I con him no thanks for 't , in the nature he delivers it .
PAROLLES : Poor rogues , I pray you , say .
First Soldier : Well , that 's set down .
PAROLLES : I humbly thank you , sir : a truth 's a truth , the rogues are marvellous poor .
First Soldier : ' Demand of him , of what strength they are a-foot . ' What say you to that ?
PAROLLES : By my troth , sir , if I were to live this present hour , I will tell true . Let me see : Spurio , a hundred and fifty ; Sebastian , so many ; Corambus , so many ; Jaques , so many ; Guiltian , Cosmo , Lodowick , and Gratii , two hundred and fifty each ; mine own company , Chitopher , Vaumond , Bentii , two hundred and fifty each : so that the muster-file , rotten and sound , upon my life , amounts not to fifteen thousand poll ; half of the which dare not shake snow from off their cassocks , lest they shake themselves to pieces .
BERTRAM : What shall be done to him ?
First Lord : Nothing , but let him have thanks . Demand of him my condition , and what credit I have with the duke .
First Soldier : Well , that 's set down . Reads ' You shall demand of him , whether one Captain Dumain be i ' the camp , a Frenchman ; what his reputation is with the duke ; what his valour , honesty , and expertness in wars ; or whether he thinks it were not possible , with well-weighing sums of gold , to corrupt him to revolt . ' What say you to this ? what do you know of it ?
PAROLLES : I beseech you , let me answer to the particular of the inter 'gatories : demand them singly .
First Soldier : Do you know this Captain Dumain ?
PAROLLES : I know him : a ' was a botcher 's ' prentice in Paris , from whence he was whipped for getting the shrieve 's fool with child , --a dumb innocent , that could not say him nay .
BERTRAM : Nay , by your leave , hold your hands ; though I know his brains are forfeit to the next tile that falls .
First Soldier : Well , is this captain in the duke of Florence 's camp ?
PAROLLES : Upon my knowledge , he is , and lousy .
First Lord : Nay look not so upon me ; we shall hear of your lordship anon .
First Soldier : What is his reputation with the duke ?
PAROLLES : The duke knows him for no other but a poor officer of mine ; and writ to me this other day to turn him out o ' the band : I think I have his letter in my pocket .
First Soldier : Marry , we 'll search .
PAROLLES : In good sadness , I do not know ; either it is there , or it is upon a file with the duke 's other letters in my tent .
First Soldier : Here ' tis ; here 's a paper : shall I read it to you ?
PAROLLES : I do not know if it be it or no .
BERTRAM : Our interpreter does it well .
First Lord : Excellently .
First Soldier : ' Dian , the count 's a fool , and full of gold , ' --
PAROLLES : That is not the duke 's letter , sir ; that is an advertisement to a proper maid in Florence , one Diana , to take heed of the allurement of one Count Rousillon , a foolish idle boy , but for all that very ruttish : I pray you , sir , put it up again .
