First Gentleman : A servant only , and a gentleman Which I have sometime known .
COUNTESS : Parolles , was it not ?
First Gentleman : Ay , my good lady , he .
COUNTESS : A very tainted fellow , and full of wickedness . My son corrupts a well-derived nature With his inducement .
First Gentleman : Indeed , good lady , The fellow has a deal of that too much , Which holds him much to have .
COUNTESS : You 're welcome , gentlemen . I will entreat you , when you see my son , To tell him that his sword can never win The honour that he loses : more I 'll entreat you Written to bear along .
Second Gentleman : We serve you , madam , In that and all your worthiest affairs .
COUNTESS : Not so , but as we change our courtesies . Will you draw near !
HELENA : ' Till I have no wife , I have nothing in France . ' Nothing in France , until he has no wife ! Thou shalt have none , Rousillon , none in France ; Then hast thou all again . Poor lord ! is 't I That chase thee from thy country and expose Those tender limbs of thine to the event Of the none-sparing war ? and is it I That drive thee from the sportive court , where thou Wast shot at with fair eyes , to be the mark Of smoky muskets ? O you leaden messengers , That ride upon the violent speed of fire , Fly with false aim ; move the still-peering air , That sings with piercing ; do not touch my lord . Whoever shoots at him , I set him there ; Whoever charges on his forward breast , I am the caitiff that do hold him to 't ; And , though I kill him not , I am the cause His death was so effected : better ' twere I met the ravin lion when he roar 'd With sharp constraint of hunger ; better ' twere That all the miseries which nature owes Were mine at once . No , come thou home , Rousillon , Whence honour but of danger wins a scar , As oft it loses all : I will be gone ; My being here it is that holds thee hence : Shall I stay here to do 't ? no , no , although The air of paradise did fan the house And angels officed all : I will be gone , That pitiful rumour may report my flight , To consolate thine ear . Come , night ; end , day ! For with the dark , poor thief , I 'll steal away . Exit Flourish . Enter the DUKE of Florence , BERTRAM , PAROLLES , Soldiers , Drum , and Trumpets
DUKE : The general of our horse thou art ; and we , Great in our hope , lay our best love and credence Upon thy promising fortune .
BERTRAM : Sir , it is A charge too heavy for my strength , but yet We 'll strive to bear it for your worthy sake To the extreme edge of hazard .
DUKE : Then go thou forth ; And fortune play upon thy prosperous helm , As thy auspicious mistress !
BERTRAM : This very day , Great Mars , I put myself into thy file : Make me but like my thoughts , and I shall prove A lover of thy drum , hater of love . Enter COUNTESS and Steward
COUNTESS : Alas ! and would you take the letter of her ? Might you not know she would do as she has done , By sending me a letter ? Read it again .
