DIANA : Let death and honesty Go with your impositions , I am yours Upon your will to suffer .
HELENA : Yet , I pray you : But with the word the time will bring on summer , When briers shall have leaves as well as thorns , And be as sweet as sharp . We must away ; Our wagon is prepared , and time revives us : All 's well that ends well ; still the fine 's the crown ; Whate 'er the course , the end is the renown . Enter COUNTESS , LAFEU , and Clown
LAFEU : No , no , no , your son was misled with a snipt-taffeta fellow there , whose villanous saffron would have made all the unbaked and doughy youth of a nation in his colour : your daughter-in-law had been alive at this hour , and your son here at home , more advanced by the king than by that red-tailed humble-bee I speak of .
COUNTESS : I would I had not known him ; it was the death of the most virtuous gentlewoman that ever nature had praise for creating . If she had partaken of my flesh , and cost me the dearest groans of a mother , I could not have owed her a more rooted love .
LAFEU : ' Twas a good lady , ' twas a good lady : we may pick a thousand salads ere we light on such another herb .
Clown : Indeed , sir , she was the sweet marjoram of the salad , or rather , the herb of grace .
LAFEU : They are not herbs , you knave ; they are nose-herbs .
Clown : I am no great Nebuchadnezzar , sir ; I have not much skill in grass .
LAFEU : Whether dost thou profess thyself , a knave or a fool ?
Clown : A fool , sir , at a woman 's service , and a knave at a man 's .
LAFEU : Your distinction ?
Clown : I would cozen the man of his wife and do his service .
LAFEU : So you were a knave at his service , indeed .
Clown : And I would give his wife my bauble , sir , to do her service .
LAFEU : I will subscribe for thee , thou art both knave and fool .
Clown : At your service .
LAFEU : No , no , no .
Clown : Why , sir , if I cannot serve you , I can serve as great a prince as you are .
LAFEU : Who 's that ? a Frenchman ?
Clown : Faith , sir , a ' has an English name ; but his fisnomy is more hotter in France than there .
LAFEU : What prince is that ?
Clown : The black prince , sir ; alias , the prince of darkness ; alias , the devil .
LAFEU : Hold thee , there 's my purse : I give thee not this to suggest thee from thy master thou talkest of ; serve him still .
Clown : I am a woodland fellow , sir , that always loved a great fire ; and the master I speak of ever keeps a good fire . But , sure , he is the prince of the world ; let his nobility remain in 's court . I am for the house with the narrow gate , which I take to be too little for pomp to enter : some that humble themselves may ; but the many will be too chill and tender , and they 'll be for the flowery way that leads to the broad gate and the great fire .
LAFEU : Go thy ways , I begin to be aweary of thee ; and I tell thee so before , because I would not fall out with thee . Go thy ways : let my horses be well looked to , without any tricks .
Clown : If I put any tricks upon ' em , sir , they shall be jades ' tricks ; which are their own right by the law of nature . Exit
LAFEU : A shrewd knave and an unhappy .
