LAFEU : Very hand of heaven .
PAROLLES : Ay , so I say .
LAFEU : In a most weak-- pausing and debile minister , great power , great transcendence : which should , indeed , give us a further use to be made than alone the recovery of the king , as to be-- pausing generally thankful .
PAROLLES : I would have said it ; you say well . Here comes the king . Enter KING , HELENA , and Attendants . LAFEU and PAROLLES retire
LAFEU : Lustig , as the Dutchman says : I 'll like a maid the better , whilst I have a tooth in my head : why , he 's able to lead her a coranto .
PAROLLES : Mort du vinaigre ! is not this Helen ?
LAFEU : ' Fore God , I think so .
KING : Go , call before me all the lords in court . Sit , my preserver , by thy patient 's side ; And with this healthful hand , whose banish 'd sense Thou hast repeal 'd , a second time receive The confirmation of my promised gift , Which but attends thy naming . Enter three or four Lords Fair maid , send forth thine eye : this youthful parcel Of noble bachelors stand at my bestowing , O 'er whom both sovereign power and father 's voice I have to use : thy frank election make ; Thou hast power to choose , and they none to forsake .
HELENA : To each of you one fair and virtuous mistress Fall , when Love please ! marry , to each , but one !
LAFEU : I 'ld give bay Curtal and his furniture , My mouth no more were broken than these boys ' , And writ as little beard .
KING : Peruse them well : Not one of those but had a noble father .
HELENA : Gentlemen , Heaven hath through me restored the king to health .
All : We understand it , and thank heaven for you .
HELENA : I am a simple maid , and therein wealthiest , That I protest I simply am a maid . Please it your majesty , I have done already : The blushes in my cheeks thus whisper me , ' We blush that thou shouldst choose ; but , be refused , Let the white death sit on thy cheek for ever ; We 'll ne 'er come there again . ' 
KING : Make choice ; and , see , Who shuns thy love shuns all his love in me .
HELENA : Now , Dian , from thy altar do I fly , And to imperial Love , that god most high , Do my sighs stream . Sir , will you hear my suit ?
First Lord : And grant it .
HELENA : Thanks , sir ; all the rest is mute .
LAFEU : I had rather be in this choice than throw ames-ace for my life .
HELENA : The honour , sir , that flames in your fair eyes , Before I speak , too threateningly replies : Love make your fortunes twenty times above Her that so wishes and her humble love !
Second Lord : No better , if you please .
HELENA : My wish receive , Which great Love grant ! and so , I take my leave .
LAFEU : Do all they deny her ? An they were sons of mine , I 'd have them whipped ; or I would send them to the Turk , to make eunuchs of .
HELENA : Be not afraid that I your hand should take ; I 'll never do you wrong for your own sake : Blessing upon your vows ! and in your bed Find fairer fortune , if you ever wed !
LAFEU : These boys are boys of ice , they 'll none have her : sure , they are bastards to the English ; the French ne 'er got ' em .
HELENA : You are too young , too happy , and too good , To make yourself a son out of my blood .
Fourth Lord : Fair one , I think not so .
LAFEU : There 's one grape yet ; I am sure thy father drunk wine : but if thou be 'st not an ass , I am a youth of fourteen ; I have known thee already .
