Second Lord : I , with a troop of Florentines , will suddenly surprise him ; such I will have , whom I am sure he knows not from the enemy : we will bind and hoodwink him so , that he shall suppose no other but that he is carried into the leaguer of the adversaries , when we bring him to our own tents . Be but your lordship present at his examination : if he do not , for the promise of his life and in the highest compulsion of base fear , offer to betray you and deliver all the intelligence in his power against you , and that with the divine forfeit of his soul upon oath , never trust my judgment in any thing .
First Lord : O , for the love of laughter , let him fetch his drum ; he says he has a stratagem for 't : when your lordship sees the bottom of his success in 't , and to what metal this counterfeit lump of ore will be melted , if you give him not John Drum 's entertainment , your inclining cannot be removed . Here he comes . Enter PAROLLES
Second Lord : O , for the love of laughter , hinder not the honour of his design : let him fetch off his drum in any hand .
BERTRAM : How now , monsieur ! this drum sticks sorely in your disposition .
First Lord : A pox on 't , let it go ; ' tis but a drum .
PAROLLES : ' But a drum ' ! is 't ' but a drum ' ? A drum so lost ! There was excellent command , --to charge in with our horse upon our own wings , and to rend our own soldiers !
First Lord : That was not to be blamed in the command of the service : it was a disaster of war that Caesar himself could not have prevented , if he had been there to command .
BERTRAM : Well , we cannot greatly condemn our success : some dishonour we had in the loss of that drum ; but it is not to be recovered .
PAROLLES : It might have been recovered .
BERTRAM : It might ; but it is not now .
PAROLLES : It is to be recovered : but that the merit of service is seldom attributed to the true and exact performer , I would have that drum or another , or ' hic jacet . ' 
BERTRAM : Why , if you have a stomach , to 't , monsieur : if you think your mystery in stratagem can bring this instrument of honour again into his native quarter , be magnanimous in the enterprise and go on ; I will grace the attempt for a worthy exploit : if you speed well in it , the duke shall both speak of it. and extend to you what further becomes his greatness , even to the utmost syllable of your worthiness .
PAROLLES : By the hand of a soldier , I will undertake it .
BERTRAM : But you must not now slumber in it .
PAROLLES : I 'll about it this evening : and I will presently pen down my dilemmas , encourage myself in my certainty , put myself into my mortal preparation ; and by midnight look to hear further from me .
BERTRAM : May I be bold to acquaint his grace you are gone about it ?
PAROLLES : I know not what the success will be , my lord ; but the attempt I vow .
BERTRAM : I know thou 'rt valiant ; and , to the possibility of thy soldiership , will subscribe for thee . Farewell .
PAROLLES : I love not many words . Exit
Second Lord : No more than a fish loves water . Is not this a strange fellow , my lord , that so confidently seems to undertake this business , which he knows is not to be done ; damns himself to do and dares better be damned than to do 't ?
First Lord : You do not know him , my lord , as we do : certain it is that he will steal himself into a man 's favour and for a week escape a great deal of discoveries ; but when you find him out , you have him ever after .
