BERTRAM : A heaven on earth I have won by wooing thee . Exit
DIANA : For which live long to thank both heaven and me ! You may so in the end . My mother told me just how he would woo , As if she sat in ' s heart ; she says all men Have the like oaths : he had sworn to marry me When his wife 's dead ; therefore I 'll lie with him When I am buried . Since Frenchmen are so braid , Marry that will , I live and die a maid : Only in this disguise I think 't no sin To cozen him that would unjustly win . Exit Enter the two French Lords and some two or three Soldiers
First Lord : You have not given him his mother 's letter ?
Second Lord : I have delivered it an hour since : there is something in 't that stings his nature ; for on the reading it he changed almost into another man .
First Lord : He has much worthy blame laid upon him for shaking off so good a wife and so sweet a lady .
Second Lord : Especially he hath incurred the everlasting displeasure of the king , who had even tuned his bounty to sing happiness to him . I will tell you a thing , but you shall let it dwell darkly with you .
First Lord : When you have spoken it , ' tis dead , and I am the grave of it .
Second Lord : He hath perverted a young gentlewoman here in Florence , of a most chaste renown ; and this night he fleshes his will in the spoil of her honour : he hath given her his monumental ring , and thinks himself made in the unchaste composition .
First Lord : Now , God delay our rebellion ! as we are ourselves , what things are we !
Second Lord : Merely our own traitors . And as in the common course of all treasons , we still see them reveal themselves , till they attain to their abhorred ends , so he that in this action contrives against his own nobility , in his proper stream o 'erflows himself .
First Lord : Is it not meant damnable in us , to be trumpeters of our unlawful intents ? We shall not then have his company to-night ?
Second Lord : Not till after midnight ; for he is dieted to his hour .
First Lord : That approaches apace ; I would gladly have him see his company anatomized , that he might take a measure of his own judgments , wherein so curiously he had set this counterfeit .
Second Lord : We will not meddle with him till he come ; for his presence must be the whip of the other .
First Lord : In the mean time , what hear you of these wars ?
Second Lord : I hear there is an overture of peace .
First Lord : Nay , I assure you , a peace concluded .
Second Lord : What will Count Rousillon do then ? will he travel higher , or return again into France ?
First Lord : I perceive , by this demand , you are not altogether of his council .
Second Lord : Let it be forbid , sir ; so should I be a great deal of his act .
First Lord : Sir , his wife some two months since fled from his house : her pretence is a pilgrimage to Saint Jaques le Grand ; which holy undertaking with most austere sanctimony she accomplished ; and , there residing the tenderness of her nature became as a prey to her grief ; in fine , made a groan of her last breath , and now she sings in heaven .
Second Lord : How is this justified ?
First Lord : The stronger part of it by her own letters , which makes her story true , even to the point of her death : her death itself , which could not be her office to say is come , was faithfully confirmed by the rector of the place .
Second Lord : Hath the count all this intelligence ?
First Lord : Ay , and the particular confirmations , point from point , so to the full arming of the verity .
