LAFEU : Farewell , pretty lady : you must hold the credit of your father .
HELENA : O , were that all ! I think not on my father ; And these great tears grace his remembrance more Than those I shed for him . What was he like ? I have forgot him : my imagination Carries no favour in 't but Bertram 's . I am undone : there is no living , none , If Bertram be away . ' Twere all one That I should love a bright particular star And think to wed it , he is so above me : In his bright radiance and collateral light Must I be comforted , not in his sphere . The ambition in my love thus plagues itself : The hind that would be mated by the lion Must die for love . ' Twas pretty , though plague , To see him every hour ; to sit and draw His arched brows , his hawking eye , his curls , In our heart 's table ; heart too capable Of every line and trick of his sweet favour : But now he 's gone , and my idolatrous fancy Must sanctify his reliques . Who comes here ? Enter PAROLLES Aside One that goes with him : I love him for his sake ; And yet I know him a notorious liar , Think him a great way fool , solely a coward ; Yet these fixed evils sit so fit in him , That they take place , when virtue 's steely bones Look bleak i ' the cold wind : withal , full oft we see Cold wisdom waiting on superfluous folly .
PAROLLES : Save you , fair queen !
HELENA : And you , monarch !
PAROLLES : No .
HELENA : And no .
PAROLLES : Are you meditating on virginity ?
HELENA : Ay . You have some stain of soldier in you : let me ask you a question . Man is enemy to virginity ; how may we barricado it against him ?
PAROLLES : Keep him out .
HELENA : But he assails ; and our virginity , though valiant , in the defence yet is weak : unfold to us some warlike resistance .
PAROLLES : There is none : man , sitting down before you , will undermine you and blow you up .
HELENA : Bless our poor virginity from underminers and blowers up ! Is there no military policy , how virgins might blow up men ?
PAROLLES : Virginity being blown down , man will quicklier be blown up : marry , in blowing him down again , with the breach yourselves made , you lose your city . It is not politic in the commonwealth of nature to preserve virginity . Loss of virginity is rational increase and there was never virgin got till virginity was first lost . That you were made of is metal to make virgins . Virginity by being once lost may be ten times found ; by being ever kept , it is ever lost : ' tis too cold a companion ; away with ' t !
HELENA : I will stand for ' t a little , though therefore I die a virgin .
PAROLLES : There 's little can be said in ' t ; ' tis against the rule of nature . To speak on the part of virginity , is to accuse your mothers ; which is most infallible disobedience . He that hangs himself is a virgin : virginity murders itself and should be buried in highways out of all sanctified limit , as a desperate offendress against nature . Virginity breeds mites , much like a cheese ; consumes itself to the very paring , and so dies with feeding his own stomach . Besides , virginity is peevish , proud , idle , made of self-love , which is the most inhibited sin in the canon . Keep it not ; you cannot choose but loose by 't : out with ' t ! within ten year it will make itself ten , which is a goodly increase ; and the principal itself not much the worse : away with ' t !
HELENA : How might one do , sir , to lose it to her own liking ?
