PAROLLES : O , let me live ! And all the secrets of our camp I 'll show , Their force , their purposes ; nay , I 'll speak that Which you will wonder at .
First Soldier : But wilt thou faithfully ?
PAROLLES : If I do not , damn me .
First Soldier : Acordo linta . Come on ; thou art granted space . Exit , with PAROLLES guarded . A short alarum within
Second Lord : Go , tell the Count Rousillon , and my brother , We have caught the woodcock , and will keep him muffled Till we do hear from them .
Second Soldier : Captain , I will .
Second Lord : A ' will betray us all unto ourselves : Inform on that .
Second Soldier : So I will , sir .
Second Lord : Till then I 'll keep him dark and safely lock 'd . Enter BERTRAM and DIANA
BERTRAM : They told me that your name was Fontibell .
DIANA : No , my good lord , Diana .
BERTRAM : Titled goddess ; And worth it , with addition ! But , fair soul , In your fine frame hath love no quality ? If quick fire of youth light not your mind , You are no maiden , but a monument : When you are dead , you should be such a one As you are now , for you are cold and stem ; And now you should be as your mother was When your sweet self was got .
DIANA : She then was honest .
BERTRAM : So should you be .
DIANA : No : My mother did but duty ; such , my lord , As you owe to your wife .
BERTRAM : No more o ' that ; I prithee , do not strive against my vows : I was compell 'd to her ; but I love thee By love 's own sweet constraint , and will for ever Do thee all rights of service .
DIANA : Ay , so you serve us Till we serve you ; but when you have our roses , You barely leave our thorns to prick ourselves And mock us with our bareness .
BERTRAM : How have I sworn !
DIANA : ' Tis not the many oaths that makes the truth , But the plain single vow that is vow 'd true . What is not holy , that we swear not by , But take the High 'st to witness : then , pray you , tell me , If I should swear by God 's great attributes , I loved you dearly , would you believe my oaths , When I did love you ill ? This has no holding , To swear by him whom I protest to love , That I will work against him : therefore your oaths Are words and poor conditions , but unseal 'd , At least in my opinion .
BERTRAM : Change it , change it ; Be not so holy-cruel : love is holy ; And my integrity ne 'er knew the crafts That you do charge men with . Stand no more off , But give thyself unto my sick desires , Who then recover : say thou art mine , and ever My love as it begins shall so persever .
DIANA : I see that men make ropes in such a scarre That we 'll forsake ourselves . Give me that ring .
BERTRAM : I 'll lend it thee , my dear ; but have no power To give it from me .
DIANA : Will you not , my lord ?
BERTRAM : It is an honour ' longing to our house , Bequeathed down from many ancestors ; Which were the greatest obloquy i ' the world In me to lose .
DIANA : Mine honour 's such a ring : My chastity 's the jewel of our house , Bequeathed down from many ancestors ; Which were the greatest obloquy i ' the world In me to lose : thus your own proper wisdom Brings in the champion Honour on my part , Against your vain assault .
BERTRAM : Here , take my ring : My house , mine honour , yea , my life , be thine , And I 'll be bid by thee .
