PAROLLES : My meaning in 't , I protest , was very honest in the behalf of the maid ; for I knew the young count to be a dangerous and lascivious boy , who is a whale to virginity and devours up all the fry it finds .
BERTRAM : Damnable both-sides rogue !
First Soldier : ' When he swears oaths , bid him drop gold , and take it ; After he scores , he never pays the score : Half won is match well made ; match , and well make it ; He ne 'er pays after-debts , take it before ; And say a soldier , Dian , told thee this , Men are to mell with , boys are not to kiss : For count of this , the count 's a fool , I know it , Who pays before , but not when he does owe it . Thine , as he vowed to thee in thine ear , PAROLLES . ' 
BERTRAM : He shall be whipped through the army with this rhyme in 's forehead .
Second Lord : This is your devoted friend , sir , the manifold linguist and the armipotent soldier .
BERTRAM : I could endure any thing before but a cat , and now he 's a cat to me .
First Soldier : I perceive , sir , by the general 's looks , we shall be fain to hang you .
PAROLLES : My life , sir , in any case : not that I am afraid to die ; but that , my offences being many , I would repent out the remainder of nature : let me live , sir , in a dungeon , i ' the stocks , or any where , so I may live .
First Soldier : We 'll see what may be done , so you confess freely ; therefore , once more to this Captain Dumain : you have answered to his reputation with the duke and to his valour : what is his honesty ?
PAROLLES : He will steal , sir , an egg out of a cloister : for rapes and ravishments he parallels Nessus : he professes not keeping of oaths ; in breaking ' em he is stronger than Hercules : he will lie , sir , with such volubility , that you would think truth were a fool : drunkenness is his best virtue , for he will be swine-drunk ; and in his sleep he does little harm , save to his bed-clothes about him ; but they know his conditions and lay him in straw . I have but little more to say , sir , of his honesty : he has every thing that an honest man should not have ; what an honest man should have , he has nothing .
First Lord : I begin to love him for this .
BERTRAM : For this description of thine honesty ? A pox upon him for me , he 's more and more a cat .
First Soldier : What say you to his expertness in war ?
PAROLLES : Faith , sir , he has led the drum before the English tragedians ; to belie him , I will not , and more of his soldiership I know not ; except , in that country he had the honour to be the officer at a place there called Mile-end , to instruct for the doubling of files : I would do the man what honour I can , but of this I am not certain .
First Lord : He hath out-villained villany so far , that the rarity redeems him .
BERTRAM : A pox on him , he 's a cat still .
First Soldier : His qualities being at this poor price , I need not to ask you if gold will corrupt him to revolt .
PAROLLES : Sir , for a quart d 'ecu he will sell the fee-simple of his salvation , the inheritance of it ; and cut the entail from all remainders , and a perpetual succession for it perpetually .
First Soldier : What 's his brother , the other Captain Dumain ?
Second Lord : Why does be ask him of me ?
First Soldier : What 's he ?
