LAFEU : I like him well ; ' tis not amiss . And I was about to tell you , since I heard of the good lady 's death and that my lord your son was upon his return home , I moved the king my master to speak in the behalf of my daughter ; which , in the minority of them both , his majesty , out of a self-gracious remembrance , did first propose : his highness hath promised me to do it : and , to stop up the displeasure he hath conceived against your son , there is no fitter matter . How does your ladyship like it ?
COUNTESS : With very much content , my lord ; and I wish it happily effected .
LAFEU : His highness comes post from Marseilles , of as able body as when he numbered thirty : he will be here to-morrow , or I am deceived by him that in such intelligence hath seldom failed .
COUNTESS : It rejoices me , that I hope I shall see him ere I die . I have letters that my son will be here to-night : I shall beseech your lordship to remain with me till they meet together .
LAFEU : Madam , I was thinking with what manners I might safely be admitted .
COUNTESS : You need but plead your honourable privilege .
LAFEU : Lady , of that I have made a bold charter ; but I thank my God it holds yet . Re-enter Clown
Clown : O madam , yonder 's my lord your son with a patch of velvet on 's face : whether there be a scar under 't or no , the velvet knows ; but ' tis a goodly patch of velvet : his left cheek is a cheek of two pile and a half , but his right cheek is worn bare .
LAFEU : A scar nobly got , or a noble scar , is a good livery of honour ; so belike is that .
Clown : But it is your carbonadoed face .
LAFEU : Let us go see your son , I pray you : I long to talk with the young noble soldier .
Clown : Faith there 's a dozen of ' em , with delicate fine hats and most courteous feathers , which bow the head and nod at every man . Enter HELENA , Widow , and DIANA , with two Attendants
HELENA : But this exceeding posting day and night Must wear your spirits low ; we cannot help it : But since you have made the days and nights as one , To wear your gentle limbs in my affairs , Be bold you do so grow in my requital As nothing can unroot you . In happy time ; Enter a Gentleman This man may help me to his majesty 's ear , If he would spend his power . God save you , sir .
Gentleman : And you .
HELENA : Sir , I have seen you in the court of France .
Gentleman : I have been sometimes there .
HELENA : I do presume , sir , that you are not fallen From the report that goes upon your goodness ; An therefore , goaded with most sharp occasions , Which lay nice manners by , I put you to The use of your own virtues , for the which I shall continue thankful .
Gentleman : What 's your will ?
HELENA : That it will please you To give this poor petition to the king , And aid me with that store of power you have To come into his presence .
Gentleman : The king 's not here .
HELENA : Not here , sir !
Gentleman : Not , indeed : He hence removed last night and with more haste Than is his use .
Widow : Lord , how we lose our pains !
HELENA : ALL 'S WELL THAT ENDS WELL yet , Though time seem so adverse and means unfit . I do beseech you , whither is he gone ?
Gentleman : Marry , as I take it , to Rousillon ; Whither I am going .
