HELENA : Good madam , pardon me !
COUNTESS : Do you love my son ?
HELENA : Your pardon , noble mistress !
COUNTESS : Love you my son ?
HELENA : Do not you love him , madam ?
COUNTESS : Go not about ; my love hath in 't a bond , Whereof the world takes note : come , come , disclose The state of your affection ; for your passions Have to the full appeach 'd .
HELENA : Then , I confess , Here on my knee , before high heaven and you , That before you , and next unto high heaven , I love your son . My friends were poor , but honest ; so 's my love : Be not offended ; for it hurts not him That he is loved of me : I follow him not By any token of presumptuous suit ; Nor would I have him till I do deserve him ; Yet never know how that desert should be . I know I love in vain , strive against hope ; Yet in this captious and intenible sieve I still pour in the waters of my love And lack not to lose still : thus , Indian-like , Religious in mine error , I adore The sun , that looks upon his worshipper , But knows of him no more . My dearest madam , Let not your hate encounter with my love For loving where you do : but if yourself , Whose aged honour cites a virtuous youth , Did ever in so true a flame of liking Wish chastely and love dearly , that your Dian Was both herself and love : O , then , give pity To her , whose state is such that cannot choose But lend and give where she is sure to lose ; That seeks not to find that her search implies , But riddle-like lives sweetly where she dies !
COUNTESS : Had you not lately an intent , --speak truly , -- To go to Paris ?
HELENA : Madam , I had .
COUNTESS : Wherefore ? tell true .
HELENA : I will tell truth ; by grace itself I swear . You know my father left me some prescriptions Of rare and proved effects , such as his reading And manifest experience had collected For general sovereignty ; and that he will 'd me In heedfull 'st reservation to bestow them , As notes whose faculties inclusive were More than they were in note : amongst the rest , There is a remedy , approved , set down , To cure the desperate languishings whereof The king is render 'd lost .
COUNTESS : This was your motive For Paris , was it ? speak .
HELENA : My lord your son made me to think of this ; Else Paris and the medicine and the king Had from the conversation of my thoughts Haply been absent then .
COUNTESS : But think you , Helen , If you should tender your supposed aid , He would receive it ? he and his physicians Are of a mind ; he , that they cannot help him , They , that they cannot help : how shall they credit A poor unlearned virgin , when the schools , Embowell 'd of their doctrine , have left off The danger to itself ?
HELENA : There 's something in 't , More than my father 's skill , which was the greatest Of his profession , that his good receipt Shall for my legacy be sanctified By the luckiest stars in heaven : and , would your honour But give me leave to try success , I 'ld venture The well-lost life of mine on his grace 's cure By such a day and hour .
COUNTESS : Dost thou believe 't ?
HELENA : Ay , madam , knowingly .
COUNTESS : Why , Helen , thou shalt have my leave and love , Means and attendants and my loving greetings To those of mine in court : I 'll stay at home And pray God 's blessing into thy attempt : Be gone to-morrow ; and be sure of this , What I can help thee to thou shalt not miss . Flourish of cornets . Enter the KING , attended with divers young Lords taking leave for the Florentine war ; BERTRAM , and PAROLLES
