COUNTESS : Faith , I do : her father bequeathed her to me ; and she herself , without other advantage , may lawfully make title to as much love as she finds : there is more owing her than is paid ; and more shall be paid her than she 'll demand .
Steward : Madam , I was very late more near her than I think she wished me : alone she was , and did communicate to herself her own words to her own ears ; she thought , I dare vow for her , they touched not any stranger sense . Her matter was , she loved your son : Fortune , she said , was no goddess , that had put such difference betwixt their two estates ; Love no god , that would not extend his might , only where qualities were level ; Dian no queen of virgins , that would suffer her poor knight surprised , without rescue in the first assault or ransom afterward . This she delivered in the most bitter touch of sorrow that e 'er I heard virgin exclaim in : which I held my duty speedily to acquaint you withal ; sithence , in the loss that may happen , it concerns you something to know it .
COUNTESS : You have discharged this honestly ; keep it to yourself : many likelihoods informed me of this before , which hung so tottering in the balance that I could neither believe nor misdoubt . Pray you , leave me : stall this in your bosom ; and I thank you for your honest care : I will speak with you further anon . Exit Steward Enter HELENA Even so it was with me when I was young : If ever we are nature 's , these are ours ; this thorn Doth to our rose of youth rightly belong ; Our blood to us , this to our blood is born ; It is the show and seal of nature 's truth , Where love 's strong passion is impress 'd in youth : By our remembrances of days foregone , Such were our faults , or then we thought them none . Her eye is sick on 't : I observe her now .
HELENA : What is your pleasure , madam ?
COUNTESS : You know , Helen , I am a mother to you .
HELENA : Mine honourable mistress .
COUNTESS : Nay , a mother : Why not a mother ? When I said ' a mother , ' Methought you saw a serpent : what 's in ' mother , ' That you start at it ? I say , I am your mother ; And put you in the catalogue of those That were enwombed mine : ' tis often seen Adoption strives with nature and choice breeds A native slip to us from foreign seeds : You ne 'er oppress 'd me with a mother 's groan , Yet I express to you a mother 's care : God 's mercy , maiden ! does it curd thy blood To say I am thy mother ? What 's the matter , That this distemper 'd messenger of wet , The many-colour 'd Iris , rounds thine eye ? Why ? that you are my daughter ?
HELENA : That I am not .
COUNTESS : I say , I am your mother .
HELENA : Pardon , madam ; The Count Rousillon cannot be my brother : I am from humble , he from honour 'd name ; No note upon my parents , his all noble : My master , my dear lord he is ; and I His servant live , and will his vassal die : He must not be my brother .
COUNTESS : Nor I your mother ?
HELENA : You are my mother , madam ; would you were , -- So that my lord your son were not my brother , -- Indeed my mother ! or were you both our mothers , I care no more for than I do for heaven , So I were not his sister . Can 't no other , But , I your daughter , he must be my brother ?
