KING : What ' her ' is this ?
LAFEU : Why , Doctor She : my lord , there 's one arrived , If you will see her : now , by my faith and honour , If seriously I may convey my thoughts In this my light deliverance , I have spoke With one that , in her sex , her years , profession , Wisdom and constancy , hath amazed me more Than I dare blame my weakness : will you see her For that is her demand , and know her business ? That done , laugh well at me .
KING : Now , good Lafeu , Bring in the admiration ; that we with thee May spend our wonder too , or take off thine By wondering how thou took 'st it .
LAFEU : Nay , I 'll fit you , And not be all day neither . Exit
KING : Thus he his special nothing ever prologues . Re-enter LAFEU , with HELENA
LAFEU : Nay , come your ways .
KING : This haste hath wings indeed .
LAFEU : Nay , come your ways : This is his majesty ; say your mind to him : A traitor you do look like ; but such traitors His majesty seldom fears : I am Cressid 's uncle , That dare leave two together ; fare you well . Exit
KING : Now , fair one , does your business follow us ?
HELENA : Ay , my good lord . Gerard de Narbon was my father ; In what he did profess , well found .
KING : I knew him .
HELENA : The rather will I spare my praises towards him : Knowing him is enough . On 's bed of death Many receipts he gave me : chiefly one . Which , as the dearest issue of his practise , And of his old experience the oily darling , He bade me store up , as a triple eye , Safer than mine own two , more dear ; I have so ; And hearing your high majesty is touch 'd With that malignant cause wherein the honour Of my dear father 's gift stands chief in power , I come to tender it and my appliance With all bound humbleness .
KING : We thank you , maiden ; But may not be so credulous of cure , When our most learned doctors leave us and The congregated college have concluded That labouring art can never ransom nature From her inaidible estate ; I say we must not So stain our judgment , or corrupt our hope , To prostitute our past-cure malady To empirics , or to dissever so Our great self and our credit , to esteem A senseless help when help past sense we deem .
HELENA : My duty then shall pay me for my pains : I will no more enforce mine office on you . Humbly entreating from your royal thoughts A modest one , to bear me back again .
KING : I cannot give thee less , to be call 'd grateful : Thou thought 'st to help me ; and such thanks I give As one near death to those that wish him live : But what at full I know , thou know 'st no part , I knowing all my peril , thou no art .
HELENA : What I can do can do no hurt to try , Since you set up your rest ' gainst remedy . He that of greatest works is finisher Oft does them by the weakest minister : So holy writ in babes hath judgment shown , When judges have been babes ; great floods have flown From simple sources , and great seas have dried When miracles have by the greatest been denied . Oft expectation fails and most oft there Where most it promises , and oft it hits Where hope is coldest and despair most fits .
KING : I must not hear thee ; fare thee well , kind maid ; Thy pains not used must by thyself be paid : Proffers not took reap thanks for their reward .
