HELENA : Not my virginity yet There shall your master have a thousand loves , A mother and a mistress and a friend , A phoenix , captain and an enemy , A guide , a goddess , and a sovereign , A counsellor , a traitress , and a dear ; His humble ambition , proud humility , His jarring concord , and his discord dulcet , His faith , his sweet disaster ; with a world Of pretty , fond , adoptious christendoms , That blinking Cupid gossips . Now shall he-- I know not what he shall . God send him well ! The court 's a learning place , and he is one--
PAROLLES : What one , i ' faith ?
HELENA : That I wish well . ' Tis pity--
PAROLLES : What 's pity ?
HELENA : That wishing well had not a body in 't , Which might be felt ; that we , the poorer born , Whose baser stars do shut us up in wishes , Might with effects of them follow our friends , And show what we alone must think , which never Return us thanks . Enter Page
Page : Monsieur Parolles , my lord calls for you . Exit
PAROLLES : Little Helen , farewell ; if I can remember thee , I will think of thee at court .
HELENA : Monsieur Parolles , you were born under a charitable star .
PAROLLES : Under Mars , I.
HELENA : I especially think , under Mars .
PAROLLES : Why under Mars ?
HELENA : The wars have so kept you under that you must needs be born under Mars .
PAROLLES : When he was predominant .
HELENA : When he was retrograde , I think , rather .
PAROLLES : Why think you so ?
HELENA : You go so much backward when you fight .
PAROLLES : That 's for advantage .
HELENA : So is running away , when fear proposes the safety ; but the composition that your valour and fear makes in you is a virtue of a good wing , and I like the wear well .
PAROLLES : I am so full of businesses , I cannot answer thee acutely . I will return perfect courtier ; in the which , my instruction shall serve to naturalize thee , so thou wilt be capable of a courtier 's counsel and understand what advice shall thrust upon thee ; else thou diest in thine unthankfulness , and thine ignorance makes thee away : farewell . When thou hast leisure , say thy prayers ; when thou hast none , remember thy friends ; get thee a good husband , and use him as he uses thee ; so , farewell . Exit
HELENA : Our remedies oft in ourselves do lie , Which we ascribe to heaven : the fated sky Gives us free scope , only doth backward pull Our slow designs when we ourselves are dull . What power is it which mounts my love so high , That makes me see , and cannot feed mine eye ? The mightiest space in fortune nature brings To join like likes and kiss like native things . Impossible be strange attempts to those That weigh their pains in sense and do suppose What hath been cannot be : who ever strove So show her merit , that did miss her love ? The king 's disease--my project may deceive me , But my intents are fix 'd and will not leave me . Exit Flourish of cornets . Enter the KING of France , with letters , and divers Attendants
KING : The Florentines and Senoys are by the ears ; Have fought with equal fortune and continue A braving war .
First Lord : So ' tis reported , sir .
KING : Nay , ' tis most credible ; we here received it A certainty , vouch 'd from our cousin Austria , With caution that the Florentine will move us For speedy aid ; wherein our dearest friend Prejudicates the business and would seem To have us make denial .
First Lord : His love and wisdom , Approved so to your majesty , may plead For amplest credence .
KING : He hath arm 'd our answer , And Florence is denied before he comes : Yet , for our gentlemen that mean to see The Tuscan service , freely have they leave To stand on either part .
