COUNTESS : Have you , I say , an answer of such fitness for all questions ?
Clown : From below your duke to beneath your constable , it will fit any question .
COUNTESS : It must be an answer of most monstrous size that must fit all demands .
Clown : But a trifle neither , in good faith , if the learned should speak truth of it : here it is , and all that belongs to 't . Ask me if I am a courtier : it shall do you no harm to learn .
COUNTESS : To be young again , if we could : I will be a fool in question , hoping to be the wiser by your answer . I pray you , sir , are you a courtier ?
Clown : O Lord , sir ! There 's a simple putting off . More , more , a hundred of them .
COUNTESS : Sir , I am a poor friend of yours , that loves you .
Clown : O Lord , sir ! Thick , thick , spare not me .
COUNTESS : I think , sir , you can eat none of this homely meat .
Clown : O Lord , sir ! Nay , put me to 't , I warrant you .
COUNTESS : You were lately whipped , sir , as I think .
Clown : O Lord , sir ! spare not me .
COUNTESS : Do you cry , ' O Lord , sir ! ' at your whipping , and ' spare not me ? ' Indeed your ' O Lord , sir ! ' is very sequent to your whipping : you would answer very well to a whipping , if you were but bound to 't .
Clown : I ne 'er had worse luck in my life in my ' O Lord , sir ! ' I see things may serve long , but not serve ever .
COUNTESS : I play the noble housewife with the time To entertain 't so merrily with a fool .
Clown : O Lord , sir ! why , there 't serves well again .
COUNTESS : An end , sir ; to your business . Give Helen this , And urge her to a present answer back : Commend me to my kinsmen and my son : This is not much .
Clown : Not much commendation to them .
COUNTESS : Not much employment for you : you understand me ?
Clown : Most fruitfully : I am there before my legs .
COUNTESS : Haste you again . Enter BERTRAM , LAFEU , and PAROLLES
LAFEU : They say miracles are past ; and we have our philosophical persons , to make modern and familiar , things supernatural and causeless . Hence is it that we make trifles of terrors , ensconcing ourselves into seeming knowledge , when we should submit ourselves to an unknown fear .
PAROLLES : Why , ' tis the rarest argument of wonder that hath shot out in our latter times .
BERTRAM : And so ' tis .
LAFEU : To be relinquish 'd of the artists , --
PAROLLES : So I say .
LAFEU : Both of Galen and Paracelsus .
PAROLLES : So I say .
LAFEU : Of all the learned and authentic fellows , --
PAROLLES : Right ; so I say .
LAFEU : That gave him out incurable , --
PAROLLES : Why , there ' tis ; so say I too .
LAFEU : Not to be helped , --
PAROLLES : Right ; as ' twere , a man assured of a--
LAFEU : Uncertain life , and sure death .
PAROLLES : Just , you say well ; so would I have said .
LAFEU : I may truly say , it is a novelty to the world .
PAROLLES : It is , indeed : if you will have it in showing , you shall read it in--what do you call there ?
LAFEU : A showing of a heavenly effect in an earthly actor .
PAROLLES : That 's it ; I would have said the very same .
LAFEU : Why , your dolphin is not lustier : ' fore me , I speak in respect--
