KING : Why , then , young Bertram , take her ; she 's thy wife .
BERTRAM : My wife , my liege ! I shall beseech your highness , In such a business give me leave to use The help of mine own eyes .
KING : Know 'st thou not , Bertram , What she has done for me ?
BERTRAM : Yes , my good lord ; But never hope to know why I should marry her .
KING : Thou know 'st she has raised me from my sickly bed .
BERTRAM : But follows it , my lord , to bring me down Must answer for your raising ? I know her well : She had her breeding at my father 's charge . A poor physician 's daughter my wife ! Disdain Rather corrupt me ever !
KING : ' Tis only title thou disdain 'st in her , the which I can build up . Strange is it that our bloods , Of colour , weight , and heat , pour 'd all together , Would quite confound distinction , yet stand off In differences so mighty . If she be All that is virtuous , save what thou dislikest , A poor physician 's daughter , thou dislikest Of virtue for the name : but do not so : From lowest place when virtuous things proceed , The place is dignified by the doer 's deed : Where great additions swell 's , and virtue none , It is a dropsied honour . Good alone Is good without a name . Vileness is so : The property by what it is should go , Not by the title . She is young , wise , fair ; In these to nature she 's immediate heir , And these breed honour : that is honour 's scorn , Which challenges itself as honour 's born And is not like the sire : honours thrive , When rather from our acts we them derive Than our foregoers : the mere word 's a slave Debosh 'd on every tomb , on every grave A lying trophy , and as oft is dumb Where dust and damn 'd oblivion is the tomb Of honour 'd bones indeed . What should be said ? If thou canst like this creature as a maid , I can create the rest : virtue and she Is her own dower ; honour and wealth from me .
BERTRAM : I cannot love her , nor will strive to do 't .
KING : Thou wrong 'st thyself , if thou shouldst strive to choose .
HELENA : That you are well restored , my lord , I 'm glad : Let the rest go .
KING : My honour 's at the stake ; which to defeat , I must produce my power . Here , take her hand , Proud scornful boy , unworthy this good gift ; That dost in vile misprision shackle up My love and her desert ; that canst not dream , We , poising us in her defective scale , Shall weigh thee to the beam ; that wilt not know , It is in us to plant thine honour where We please to have it grow . Cheque thy contempt : Obey our will , which travails in thy good : Believe not thy disdain , but presently Do thine own fortunes that obedient right Which both thy duty owes and our power claims ; Or I will throw thee from my care for ever Into the staggers and the careless lapse Of youth and ignorance ; both my revenge and hate Loosing upon thee , in the name of justice , Without all terms of pity . Speak ; thine answer .
BERTRAM : Pardon , my gracious lord ; for I submit My fancy to your eyes : when I consider What great creation and what dole of honour Flies where you bid it , I find that she , which late Was in my nobler thoughts most base , is now The praised of the king ; who , so ennobled , Is as ' twere born so .
KING : Take her by the hand , And tell her she is thine : to whom I promise A counterpoise , if not to thy estate A balance more replete .
BERTRAM : I take her hand .
