KING : Are thou so confident ? within what space Hopest thou my cure ?
HELENA : The great 'st grace lending grace Ere twice the horses of the sun shall bring Their fiery torcher his diurnal ring , Ere twice in murk and occidental damp Moist Hesperus hath quench 'd his sleepy lamp , Or four and twenty times the pilot 's glass Hath told the thievish minutes how they pass , What is infirm from your sound parts shall fly , Health shall live free and sickness freely die .
KING : Upon thy certainty and confidence What darest thou venture ?
HELENA : Tax of impudence , A strumpet 's boldness , a divulged shame Traduced by odious ballads : my maiden 's name Sear 'd otherwise ; nay , worse--if worse--extended With vilest torture let my life be ended .
KING : Methinks in thee some blessed spirit doth speak His powerful sound within an organ weak : And what impossibility would slay In common sense , sense saves another way . Thy life is dear ; for all that life can rate Worth name of life in thee hath estimate , Youth , beauty , wisdom , courage , all That happiness and prime can happy call : Thou this to hazard needs must intimate Skill infinite or monstrous desperate . Sweet practiser , thy physic I will try , That ministers thine own death if I die .
HELENA : If I break time , or flinch in property Of what I spoke , unpitied let me die , And well deserved : not helping , death 's my fee ; But , if I help , what do you promise me ?
KING : Make thy demand .
HELENA : But will you make it even ?
KING : Ay , by my sceptre and my hopes of heaven .
HELENA : Then shalt thou give me with thy kingly hand What husband in thy power I will command : Exempted be from me the arrogance To choose from forth the royal blood of France , My low and humble name to propagate With any branch or image of thy state ; But such a one , thy vassal , whom I know Is free for me to ask , thee to bestow .
KING : Here is my hand ; the premises observed , Thy will by my performance shall be served : So make the choice of thy own time , for I , Thy resolved patient , on thee still rely . More should I question thee , and more I must , Though more to know could not be more to trust , From whence thou camest , how tended on : but rest Unquestion 'd welcome and undoubted blest . Give me some help here , ho ! If thou proceed As high as word , my deed shall match thy meed . Enter COUNTESS and Clown
COUNTESS : Come on , sir ; I shall now put you to the height of your breeding .
Clown : I will show myself highly fed and lowly taught : I know my business is but to the court .
COUNTESS : To the court ! why , what place make you special , when you put off that with such contempt ? But to the court !
Clown : Truly , madam , if God have lent a man any manners , he may easily put it off at court : he that cannot make a leg , put off 's cap , kiss his hand and say nothing , has neither leg , hands , lip , nor cap ; and indeed such a fellow , to say precisely , were not for the court ; but for me , I have an answer will serve all men .
COUNTESS : Marry , that 's a bountiful answer that fits all questions .
Clown : It is like a barber 's chair that fits all buttocks , the pin-buttock , the quatch-buttock , the brawn buttock , or any buttock .
COUNTESS : Will your answer serve fit to all questions ?
