PAROLLES : This is hard and undeserved measure , my lord .
LAFEU : Go to , sir ; you were beaten in Italy for picking a kernel out of a pomegranate ; you are a vagabond and no true traveller : you are more saucy with lords and honourable personages than the commission of your birth and virtue gives you heraldry . You are not worth another word , else I 'ld call you knave . I leave you . Exit
PAROLLES : Good , very good ; it is so then : good , very good ; let it be concealed awhile . Re-enter BERTRAM
BERTRAM : Undone , and forfeited to cares for ever !
PAROLLES : What 's the matter , sweet-heart ?
BERTRAM : Although before the solemn priest I have sworn , I will not bed her .
PAROLLES : What , what , sweet-heart ?
BERTRAM : O my Parolles , they have married me ! I 'll to the Tuscan wars , and never bed her .
PAROLLES : France is a dog-hole , and it no more merits The tread of a man 's foot : to the wars !
BERTRAM : There 's letters from my mother : what the import is , I know not yet .
PAROLLES : Ay , that would be known . To the wars , my boy , to the wars ! He wears his honour in a box unseen , That hugs his kicky-wicky here at home , Spending his manly marrow in her arms , Which should sustain the bound and high curvet Of Mars 's fiery steed . To other regions France is a stable ; we that dwell in 't jades ; Therefore , to the war !
BERTRAM : It shall be so : I 'll send her to my house , Acquaint my mother with my hate to her , And wherefore I am fled ; write to the king That which I durst not speak ; his present gift Shall furnish me to those Italian fields , Where noble fellows strike : war is no strife To the dark house and the detested wife .
PAROLLES : Will this capriccio hold in thee ? art sure ?
BERTRAM : Go with me to my chamber , and advise me . I 'll send her straight away : to-morrow I 'll to the wars , she to her single sorrow .
PAROLLES : Why , these balls bound ; there 's noise in it . ' Tis hard : A young man married is a man that 's marr 'd : Therefore away , and leave her bravely ; go : The king has done you wrong : but , hush , ' tis so . Enter HELENA and Clown
HELENA : My mother greets me kindly ; is she well ?
Clown : She is not well ; but yet she has her health : she 's very merry ; but yet she is not well : but thanks be given , she 's very well and wants nothing i ' , the world ; but yet she is not well .
HELENA : If she be very well , what does she ail , that she 's not very well ?
Clown : Truly , she 's very well indeed , but for two things .
HELENA : What two things ?
Clown : One , that she 's not in heaven , whither God send her quickly ! the other that she 's in earth , from whence God send her quickly ! Enter PAROLLES
PAROLLES : Bless you , my fortunate lady !
HELENA : I hope , sir , I have your good will to have mine own good fortunes .
PAROLLES : You had my prayers to lead them on ; and to keep them on , have them still . O , my knave , how does my old lady ?
Clown : So that you had her wrinkles and I her money , I would she did as you say .
PAROLLES : Why , I say nothing .
Clown : Marry , you are the wiser man ; for many a man 's tongue shakes out his master 's undoing : to say nothing , to do nothing , to know nothing , and to have nothing , is to be a great part of your title ; which is within a very little of nothing .
PAROLLES : Away ! thou 'rt a knave .
