First Soldier : If your life be saved , will you undertake to betray the Florentine ?
PAROLLES : Ay , and the captain of his horse , Count Rousillon .
First Soldier : I 'll whisper with the general , and know his pleasure .
PAROLLES : I 'll no more drumming ; a plague of all drums ! Only to seem to deserve well , and to beguile the supposition of that lascivious young boy the count , have I run into this danger . Yet who would have suspected an ambush where I was taken ?
First Soldier : There is no remedy , sir , but you must die : the general says , you that have so traitorously discovered the secrets of your army and made such pestiferous reports of men very nobly held , can serve the world for no honest use ; therefore you must die . Come , headsman , off with his head .
PAROLLES : O Lord , sir , let me live , or let me see my death !
First Lord : That shall you , and take your leave of all your friends . Unblinding him So , look about you : know you any here ?
BERTRAM : Good morrow , noble captain .
Second Lord : God bless you , Captain Parolles .
First Lord : God save you , noble captain .
Second Lord : Captain , what greeting will you to my Lord Lafeu ? I am for France .
First Lord : Good captain , will you give me a copy of the sonnet you writ to Diana in behalf of the Count Rousillon ? an I were not a very coward , I 'ld compel it of you : but fare you well .
First Soldier : You are undone , captain , all but your scarf ; that has a knot on 't yet
PAROLLES : Who cannot be crushed with a plot ?
First Soldier : If you could find out a country where but women were that had received so much shame , you might begin an impudent nation . Fare ye well , sir ; I am for France too : we shall speak of you there . Exit with Soldiers
PAROLLES : Yet am I thankful : if my heart were great , ' Twould burst at this . Captain I 'll be no more ; But I will eat and drink , and sleep as soft As captain shall : simply the thing I am Shall make me live . Who knows himself a braggart , Let him fear this , for it will come to pass that every braggart shall be found an ass . Rust , sword ? cool , blushes ! and , Parolles , live Safest in shame ! being fool 'd , by foolery thrive ! There 's place and means for every man alive . I 'll after them . Exit Enter HELENA , Widow , and DIANA
HELENA : That you may well perceive I have not wrong 'd you , One of the greatest in the Christian world Shall be my surety ; ' fore whose throne ' tis needful , Ere I can perfect mine intents , to kneel : Time was , I did him a desired office , Dear almost as his life ; which gratitude Through flinty Tartar 's bosom would peep forth , And answer , thanks : I duly am inform 'd His grace is at Marseilles ; to which place We have convenient convoy . You must know I am supposed dead : the army breaking , My husband hies him home ; where , heaven aiding , And by the leave of my good lord the king , We 'll be before our welcome .
Widow : Gentle madam , You never had a servant to whose trust Your business was more welcome .
