BERTRAM : Yes , I do know him well , and common speech Gives him a worthy pass . Here comes my clog . Enter HELENA
HELENA : I have , sir , as I was commanded from you , Spoke with the king and have procured his leave For present parting ; only he desires Some private speech with you .
BERTRAM : I shall obey his will . You must not marvel , Helen , at my course , Which holds not colour with the time , nor does The ministration and required office On my particular . Prepared I was not For such a business ; therefore am I found So much unsettled : this drives me to entreat you That presently you take our way for home ; And rather muse than ask why I entreat you , For my respects are better than they seem And my appointments have in them a need Greater than shows itself at the first view To you that know them not . This to my mother : Giving a letter ' Twill be two days ere I shall see you , so I leave you to your wisdom .
HELENA : Sir , I can nothing say , But that I am your most obedient servant .
BERTRAM : Come , come , no more of that .
HELENA : And ever shall With true observance seek to eke out that Wherein toward me my homely stars have fail 'd To equal my great fortune .
BERTRAM : Let that go : My haste is very great : farewell ; hie home .
HELENA : Pray , sir , your pardon .
BERTRAM : Well , what would you say ?
HELENA : I am not worthy of the wealth I owe , Nor dare I say ' tis mine , and yet it is ; But , like a timorous thief , most fain would steal What law does vouch mine own .
BERTRAM : What would you have ?
HELENA : Something ; and scarce so much : nothing , indeed . I would not tell you what I would , my lord : Faith yes ; Strangers and foes do sunder , and not kiss .
BERTRAM : I pray you , stay not , but in haste to horse .
HELENA : I shall not break your bidding , good my lord .
BERTRAM : Where are my other men , monsieur ? Farewell . Exit HELENA Go thou toward home ; where I will never come Whilst I can shake my sword or hear the drum . Away , and for our flight .
PAROLLES : Bravely , coragio ! Flourish . Enter the DUKE of Florence attended ; the two Frenchmen , with a troop of soldiers .
DUKE : So that from point to point now have you heard The fundamental reasons of this war , Whose great decision hath much blood let forth And more thirsts after .
First Lord : Holy seems the quarrel Upon your grace 's part ; black and fearful On the opposer .
DUKE : Therefore we marvel much our cousin France Would in so just a business shut his bosom Against our borrowing prayers .
Second Lord : Good my lord , The reasons of our state I cannot yield , But like a common and an outward man , That the great figure of a council frames By self-unable motion : therefore dare not Say what I think of it , since I have found Myself in my incertain grounds to fail As often as I guess 'd .
DUKE : Be it his pleasure .
First Lord : But I am sure the younger of our nature , That surfeit on their ease , will day by day Come here for physic .
DUKE : Welcome shall they be ; And all the honours that can fly from us Shall on them settle . You know your places well ; When better fall , for your avails they fell : To-morrow to the field . Enter COUNTESS and Clown
COUNTESS : It hath happened all as I would have had it , save that he comes not along with her .
Clown : By my troth , I take my young lord to be a very melancholy man .
COUNTESS : By what observance , I pray you ?
