COUNTESS : In delivering my son from me , I bury a second husband .
BERTRAM : And I in going , madam , weep o 'er my father 's death anew : but I must attend his majesty 's command , to whom I am now in ward , evermore in subjection .
LAFEU : You shall find of the king a husband , madam ; you , sir , a father : he that so generally is at all times good must of necessity hold his virtue to you ; whose worthiness would stir it up where it wanted rather than lack it where there is such abundance .
COUNTESS : What hope is there of his majesty 's amendment ?
LAFEU : He hath abandoned his physicians , madam ; under whose practises he hath persecuted time with hope , and finds no other advantage in the process but only the losing of hope by time .
COUNTESS : This young gentlewoman had a father , --O , that ' had ' ! how sad a passage ' tis ! --whose skill was almost as great as his honesty ; had it stretched so far , would have made nature immortal , and death should have play for lack of work . Would , for the king 's sake , he were living ! I think it would be the death of the king 's disease .
LAFEU : How called you the man you speak of , madam ?
COUNTESS : He was famous , sir , in his profession , and it was his great right to be so : Gerard de Narbon .
LAFEU : He was excellent indeed , madam : the king very lately spoke of him admiringly and mourningly : he was skilful enough to have lived still , if knowledge could be set up against mortality .
BERTRAM : What is it , my good lord , the king languishes of ?
LAFEU : A fistula , my lord .
BERTRAM : I heard not of it before .
LAFEU : I would it were not notorious . Was this gentlewoman the daughter of Gerard de Narbon ?
COUNTESS : His sole child , my lord , and bequeathed to my overlooking . I have those hopes of her good that her education promises ; her dispositions she inherits , which makes fair gifts fairer ; for where an unclean mind carries virtuous qualities , there commendations go with pity ; they are virtues and traitors too ; in her they are the better for their simpleness ; she derives her honesty and achieves her goodness .
LAFEU : Your commendations , madam , get from her tears .
COUNTESS : ' Tis the best brine a maiden can season her praise in . The remembrance of her father never approaches her heart but the tyranny of her sorrows takes all livelihood from her cheek . No more of this , Helena ; go to , no more ; lest it be rather thought you affect a sorrow than have it .
HELENA : I do affect a sorrow indeed , but I have it too .
LAFEU : Moderate lamentation is the right of the dead , excessive grief the enemy to the living .
COUNTESS : If the living be enemy to the grief , the excess makes it soon mortal .
BERTRAM : Madam , I desire your holy wishes .
LAFEU : How understand we that ?
COUNTESS : Be thou blest , Bertram , and succeed thy father In manners , as in shape ! thy blood and virtue Contend for empire in thee , and thy goodness Share with thy birthright ! Love all , trust a few , Do wrong to none : be able for thine enemy Rather in power than use , and keep thy friend Under thy own life 's key : be cheque 'd for silence , But never tax 'd for speech . What heaven more will , That thee may furnish and my prayers pluck down , Fall on thy head ! Farewell , my lord ; ' Tis an unseason 'd courtier ; good my lord , Advise him .
LAFEU : He cannot want the best That shall attend his love .
COUNTESS : Heaven bless him ! Farewell , Bertram . Exit
