DIANA : Ay , my lord .
KING : Tell me , sirrah , but tell me true , I charge you , Not fearing the displeasure of your master , Which on your just proceeding I 'll keep off , By him and by this woman here what know you ?
PAROLLES : So please your majesty , my master hath been an honourable gentleman : tricks he hath had in him , which gentlemen have .
KING : Come , come , to the purpose : did he love this woman ?
PAROLLES : Faith , sir , he did love her ; but how ?
KING : How , I pray you ?
PAROLLES : He did love her , sir , as a gentleman loves a woman .
KING : How is that ?
PAROLLES : He loved her , sir , and loved her not .
KING : As thou art a knave , and no knave . What an equivocal companion is this !
PAROLLES : I am a poor man , and at your majesty 's command .
LAFEU : He 's a good drum , my lord , but a naughty orator .
DIANA : Do you know he promised me marriage ?
PAROLLES : Faith , I know more than I 'll speak .
KING : But wilt thou not speak all thou knowest ?
PAROLLES : Yes , so please your majesty . I did go between them , as I said ; but more than that , he loved her : for indeed he was mad for her , and talked of Satan and of Limbo and of Furies and I know not what : yet I was in that credit with them at that time that I knew of their going to bed , and of other motions , as promising her marriage , and things which would derive me ill will to speak of ; therefore I will not speak what I know .
KING : Thou hast spoken all already , unless thou canst say they are married : but thou art too fine in thy evidence ; therefore stand aside . This ring , you say , was yours ?
DIANA : Ay , my good lord .
KING : Where did you buy it ? or who gave it you ?
DIANA : It was not given me , nor I did not buy it .
KING : Who lent it you ?
DIANA : It was not lent me neither .
KING : Where did you find it , then ?
DIANA : I found it not .
KING : If it were yours by none of all these ways , How could you give it him ?
DIANA : I never gave it him .
LAFEU : This woman 's an easy glove , my lord ; she goes off and on at pleasure .
KING : This ring was mine ; I gave it his first wife .
DIANA : It might be yours or hers , for aught I know .
KING : Take her away ; I do not like her now ; To prison with her : and away with him . Unless thou tell 'st me where thou hadst this ring , Thou diest within this hour .
DIANA : I 'll never tell you .
KING : Take her away .
DIANA : I 'll put in bail , my liege .
KING : I think thee now some common customer .
DIANA : By Jove , if ever I knew man , ' twas you .
KING : Wherefore hast thou accused him all this while ?
DIANA : Because he 's guilty , and he is not guilty : He knows I am no maid , and he 'll swear to 't ; I 'll swear I am a maid , and he knows not . Great king , I am no strumpet , by my life ; I am either maid , or else this old man 's wife .
KING : She does abuse our ears : to prison with her .
