HELENA : His name , I pray you .
DIANA : The Count Rousillon : know you such a one ?
HELENA : But by the ear , that hears most nobly of him : His face I know not .
DIANA : Whatsome 'er he is , He 's bravely taken here . He stole from France , As ' tis reported , for the king had married him Against his liking : think you it is so ?
HELENA : Ay , surely , mere the truth : I know his lady .
DIANA : There is a gentleman that serves the count Reports but coarsely of her .
HELENA : What 's his name ?
DIANA : Monsieur Parolles .
HELENA : O , I believe with him , In argument of praise , or to the worth Of the great count himself , she is too mean To have her name repeated : all her deserving Is a reserved honesty , and that I have not heard examined .
DIANA : Alas , poor lady ! ' Tis a hard bondage to become the wife Of a detesting lord .
Widow : I warrant , good creature , wheresoe 'er she is , Her heart weighs sadly : this young maid might do her A shrewd turn , if she pleased .
HELENA : How do you mean ? May be the amorous count solicits her In the unlawful purpose .
Widow : He does indeed ; And brokes with all that can in such a suit Corrupt the tender honour of a maid : But she is arm 'd for him and keeps her guard In honestest defence .
MARIANA : The gods forbid else !
Widow : So , now they come : Drum and Colours Enter BERTRAM , PAROLLES , and the whole army That is Antonio , the duke 's eldest son ; That , Escalus .
HELENA : Which is the Frenchman ?
DIANA : He ; That with the plume : ' tis a most gallant fellow . I would he loved his wife : if he were honester He were much goodlier : is 't not a handsome gentleman ?
HELENA : I like him well .
DIANA : ' Tis pity he is not honest : yond 's that same knave That leads him to these places : were I his lady , I would Poison that vile rascal .
HELENA : Which is he ?
DIANA : That jack-an-apes with scarfs : why is he melancholy ?
HELENA : Perchance he 's hurt i ' the battle .
PAROLLES : Lose our drum ! well .
MARIANA : He 's shrewdly vexed at something : look , he has spied us .
Widow : Marry , hang you !
MARIANA : And your courtesy , for a ring-carrier !
Widow : The troop is past . Come , pilgrim , I will bring you Where you shall host : of enjoin 'd penitents There 's four or five , to great Saint Jaques bound , Already at my house .
HELENA : I humbly thank you : Please it this matron and this gentle maid To eat with us to-night , the charge and thanking Shall be for me ; and , to requite you further , I will bestow some precepts of this virgin Worthy the note .
BOTH : We 'll take your offer kindly . Enter BERTRAM and the two French Lords
Second Lord : Nay , good my lord , put him to 't ; let him have his way .
First Lord : If your lordship find him not a hilding , hold me no more in your respect .
Second Lord : On my life , my lord , a bubble .
BERTRAM : Do you think I am so far deceived in him ?
Second Lord : Believe it , my lord , in mine own direct knowledge , without any malice , but to speak of him as my kinsman , he 's a most notable coward , an infinite and endless liar , an hourly promise-breaker , the owner of no one good quality worthy your lordship 's entertainment .
First Lord : It were fit you knew him ; lest , reposing too far in his virtue , which he hath not , he might at some great and trusty business in a main danger fail you .
BERTRAM : I would I knew in what particular action to try him .
