LAFEU : I am sure I saw her wear it .
BERTRAM : You are deceived , my lord ; she never saw it : In Florence was it from a casement thrown me , Wrapp 'd in a paper , which contain 'd the name Of her that threw it : noble she was , and thought I stood engaged : but when I had subscribed To mine own fortune and inform 'd her fully I could not answer in that course of honour As she had made the overture , she ceased In heavy satisfaction and would never Receive the ring again .
KING : Plutus himself , That knows the tinct and multiplying medicine , Hath not in nature 's mystery more science Than I have in this ring : ' twas mine , ' twas Helen 's , Whoever gave it you . Then , if you know That you are well acquainted with yourself , Confess ' twas hers , and by what rough enforcement You got it from her : she call 'd the saints to surety That she would never put it from her finger , Unless she gave it to yourself in bed , Where you have never come , or sent it us Upon her great disaster .
BERTRAM : She never saw it .
KING : Thou speak 'st it falsely , as I love mine honour ; And makest conjectural fears to come into me Which I would fain shut out . If it should prove That thou art so inhuman , -- ' twill not prove so ; -- And yet I know not : thou didst hate her deadly , And she is dead ; which nothing , but to close Her eyes myself , could win me to believe , More than to see this ring . Take him away . Guards seize BERTRAM My fore-past proofs , howe 'er the matter fall , Shall tax my fears of little vanity , Having vainly fear 'd too little . Away with him ! We 'll sift this matter further .
BERTRAM : If you shall prove This ring was ever hers , you shall as easy Prove that I husbanded her bed in Florence , Where yet she never was . Exit , guarded
KING : I am wrapp 'd in dismal thinkings . Enter a Gentleman
Gentleman : Gracious sovereign , Whether I have been to blame or no , I know not : Here 's a petition from a Florentine , Who hath for four or five removes come short To tender it herself . I undertook it , Vanquish 'd thereto by the fair grace and speech Of the poor suppliant , who by this I know Is here attending : her business looks in her With an importing visage ; and she told me , In a sweet verbal brief , it did concern Your highness with herself .
KING : Upon his many protestations to marry me when his wife was dead , I blush to say it , he won me . Now is the Count Rousillon a widower : his vows are forfeited to me , and my honour 's paid to him . He stole from Florence , taking no leave , and I follow him to his country for justice : grant it me , O king ! in you it best lies ; otherwise a seducer flourishes , and a poor maid is undone . DIANA CAPILET .
LAFEU : I will buy me a son-in-law in a fair , and toll for this : I 'll none of him .
KING : The heavens have thought well on thee Lafeu , To bring forth this discovery . Seek these suitors : Go speedily and bring again the count . I am afeard the life of Helen , lady , Was foully snatch 'd .
COUNTESS : Now , justice on the doers ! Re-enter BERTRAM , guarded
KING : I wonder , sir , sith wives are monsters to you , And that you fly them as you swear them lordship , Yet you desire to marry . Enter Widow and DIANA What woman 's that ?
DIANA : I am , my lord , a wretched Florentine , Derived from the ancient Capilet : My suit , as I do understand , you know , And therefore know how far I may be pitied .
