First Lord : ' Tis our hope , sir , After well enter 'd soldiers , to return And find your grace in health .
KING : No , no , it cannot be ; and yet my heart Will not confess he owes the malady That doth my life besiege . Farewell , young lords ; Whether I live or die , be you the sons Of worthy Frenchmen : let higher Italy , -- Those bated that inherit but the fall Of the last monarchy , --see that you come Not to woo honour , but to wed it ; when The bravest questant shrinks , find what you seek , That fame may cry you loud : I say , farewell .
Second Lord : Health , at your bidding , serve your majesty !
KING : Those girls of Italy , take heed of them : They say , our French lack language to deny , If they demand : beware of being captives , Before you serve .
Both : Our hearts receive your warnings .
KING : Farewell . Come hither to me . Exit , attended
First Lord : O , my sweet lord , that you will stay behind us !
PAROLLES : ' Tis not his fault , the spark .
Second Lord : O , ' tis brave wars !
PAROLLES : Most admirable : I have seen those wars .
BERTRAM : I am commanded here , and kept a coil with ' Too young ' and ' the next year ' and ' ' tis too early . ' 
PAROLLES : An thy mind stand to 't , boy , steal away bravely .
BERTRAM : I shall stay here the forehorse to a smock , Creaking my shoes on the plain masonry , Till honour be bought up and no sword worn But one to dance with ! By heaven , I 'll steal away .
First Lord : There 's honour in the theft .
PAROLLES : Commit it , count .
Second Lord : I am your accessary ; and so , farewell .
BERTRAM : I grow to you , and our parting is a tortured body .
First Lord : Farewell , captain .
Second Lord : Sweet Monsieur Parolles !
PAROLLES : Noble heroes , my sword and yours are kin . Good sparks and lustrous , a word , good metals : you shall find in the regiment of the Spinii one Captain Spurio , with his cicatrice , an emblem of war , here on his sinister cheek ; it was this very sword entrenched it : say to him , I live ; and observe his reports for me .
First Lord : We shall , noble captain .
PAROLLES : Mars dote on you for his novices ! what will ye do ?
BERTRAM : Stay : the king . Re-enter KING . BERTRAM and PAROLLES retire
PAROLLES : Use a more spacious ceremony to the noble lords ; you have restrained yourself within the list of too cold an adieu : be more expressive to them : for they wear themselves in the cap of the time , there do muster true gait , eat , speak , and move under the influence of the most received star ; and though the devil lead the measure , such are to be followed : after them , and take a more dilated farewell .
BERTRAM : And I will do so .
PAROLLES : Worthy fellows ; and like to prove most sinewy sword-men . Enter LAFEU
LAFEU : Pardon , my lord , for me and for my tidings .
KING : I 'll fee thee to stand up .
LAFEU : Then here 's a man stands , that has brought his pardon . I would you had kneel 'd , my lord , to ask me mercy , And that at my bidding you could so stand up .
KING : I would I had ; so I had broke thy pate , And ask 'd thee mercy for 't .
LAFEU : Good faith , across : but , my good lord ' tis thus ; Will you be cured of your infirmity ?
KING : No .
