PAROLLES : Go to , thou art a witty fool ; I have found thee .
Clown : Did you find me in yourself , sir ? or were you taught to find me ? The search , sir , was profitable ; and much fool may you find in you , even to the world 's pleasure and the increase of laughter .
PAROLLES : A good knave , i ' faith , and well fed . Madam , my lord will go away to-night ; A very serious business calls on him . The great prerogative and rite of love , Which , as your due , time claims , he does acknowledge ; But puts it off to a compell 'd restraint ; Whose want , and whose delay , is strew 'd with sweets , Which they distil now in the curbed time , To make the coming hour o 'erflow with joy And pleasure drown the brim .
HELENA : What 's his will else ?
PAROLLES : That you will take your instant leave o ' the king And make this haste as your own good proceeding , Strengthen 'd with what apology you think May make it probable need .
HELENA : What more commands he ?
PAROLLES : That , having this obtain 'd , you presently Attend his further pleasure .
HELENA : In every thing I wait upon his will .
PAROLLES : I shall report it so .
HELENA : I pray you . Exit PAROLLES Come , sirrah . Enter LAFEU and BERTRAM
LAFEU : But I hope your lordship thinks not him a soldier .
BERTRAM : Yes , my lord , and of very valiant approof .
LAFEU : You have it from his own deliverance .
BERTRAM : And by other warranted testimony .
LAFEU : Then my dial goes not true : I took this lark for a bunting .
BERTRAM : I do assure you , my lord , he is very great in knowledge and accordingly valiant .
LAFEU : I have then sinned against his experience and transgressed against his valour ; and my state that way is dangerous , since I cannot yet find in my heart to repent . Here he comes : I pray you , make us friends ; I will pursue the amity . Enter PAROLLES
PAROLLES : These things shall be done , sir .
LAFEU : Pray you , sir , who 's his tailor ?
PAROLLES : Sir ?
LAFEU : O , I know him well , I , sir ; he , sir , ' s a good workman , a very good tailor .
BERTRAM : Is she gone to the king ?
PAROLLES : She is .
BERTRAM : Will she away to-night ?
PAROLLES : As you 'll have her .
BERTRAM : I have writ my letters , casketed my treasure , Given order for our horses ; and to-night , When I should take possession of the bride , End ere I do begin .
LAFEU : A good traveller is something at the latter end of a dinner ; but one that lies three thirds and uses a known truth to pass a thousand nothings with , should be once heard and thrice beaten . God save you , captain .
BERTRAM : Is there any unkindness between my lord and you , monsieur ?
PAROLLES : I know not how I have deserved to run into my lord 's displeasure .
LAFEU : You have made shift to run into ' t , boots and spurs and all , like him that leaped into the custard ; and out of it you 'll run again , rather than suffer question for your residence .
BERTRAM : It may be you have mistaken him , my lord .
LAFEU : And shall do so ever , though I took him at ' s prayers . Fare you well , my lord ; and believe this of me , there can be no kernel in this light nut ; the soul of this man is his clothes . Trust him not in matter of heavy consequence ; I have kept of them tame , and know their natures . Farewell , monsieur : I have spoken better of you than you have or will to deserve at my hand ; but we must do good against evil . Exit
PAROLLES : An idle lord . I swear .
BERTRAM : I think so .
