COUNTESS : Ah , what sharp stings are in her mildest words ! Rinaldo , you did never lack advice so much , As letting her pass so : had I spoke with her , I could have well diverted her intents , Which thus she hath prevented .
Steward : Pardon me , madam : If I had given you this at over-night , She might have been o 'erta 'en ; and yet she writes , Pursuit would be but vain .
COUNTESS : What angel shall Bless this unworthy husband ? he cannot thrive , Unless her prayers , whom heaven delights to hear And loves to grant , reprieve him from the wrath Of greatest justice . Write , write , Rinaldo , To this unworthy husband of his wife ; Let every word weigh heavy of her worth That he does weigh too light : my greatest grief . Though little he do feel it , set down sharply . Dispatch the most convenient messenger : When haply he shall hear that she is gone , He will return ; and hope I may that she , Hearing so much , will speed her foot again , Led hither by pure love : which of them both Is dearest to me . I have no skill in sense To make distinction : provide this messenger : My heart is heavy and mine age is weak ; Grief would have tears , and sorrow bids me speak . Enter an old Widow of Florence , DIANA , VIOLENTA , and MARIANA , with other Citizens
Widow : Nay , come ; for if they do approach the city , we shall lose all the sight .
DIANA : They say the French count has done most honourable service .
Widow : It is reported that he has taken their greatest commander ; and that with his own hand he slew the duke 's brother . Tucket We have lost our labour ; they are gone a contrary way : hark ! you may know by their trumpets .
MARIANA : Come , let 's return again , and suffice ourselves with the report of it . Well , Diana , take heed of this French earl : the honour of a maid is her name ; and no legacy is so rich as honesty .
Widow : I have told my neighbour how you have been solicited by a gentleman his companion .
MARIANA : I know that knave ; hang him ! one Parolles : a filthy officer he is in those suggestions for the young earl . Beware of them , Diana ; their promises , enticements , oaths , tokens , and all these engines of lust , are not the things they go under : many a maid hath been seduced by them ; and the misery is , example , that so terrible shows in the wreck of maidenhood , cannot for all that dissuade succession , but that they are limed with the twigs that threaten them . I hope I need not to advise you further ; but I hope your own grace will keep you where you are , though there were no further danger known but the modesty which is so lost .
DIANA : You shall not need to fear me .
Widow : I hope so . Enter HELENA , disguised like a Pilgrim Look , here comes a pilgrim : I know she will lie at my house ; thither they send one another : I 'll question her . God save you , pilgrim ! whither are you bound ?
HELENA : To Saint Jaques le Grand . Where do the palmers lodge , I do beseech you ?
Widow : At the Saint Francis here beside the port .
HELENA : Is this the way ?
Widow : Ay , marry , is 't . A march afar Hark you ! they come this way . If you will tarry , holy pilgrim , But till the troops come by , I will conduct you where you shall be lodged ; The rather , for I think I know your hostess As ample as myself .
HELENA : Is it yourself ?
Widow : If you shall please so , pilgrim .
HELENA : I thank you , and will stay upon your leisure .
Widow : You came , I think , from France ?
HELENA : I did so .
