COUNTESS : Let me see what he writes , and when he means to come . Opening a letter
Clown : I have no mind to Isbel since I was at court : our old ling and our Isbels o ' the country are nothing like your old ling and your Isbels o ' the court : the brains of my Cupid 's knocked out , and I begin to love , as an old man loves money , with no stomach .
COUNTESS : What have we here ?
Clown : E 'en that you have there . Exit
COUNTESS : I have sent you a daughter-in-law : she hath recovered the king , and undone me . I have wedded her , not bedded her ; and sworn to make the ' not ' eternal . You shall hear I am run away : know it before the report come . If there be breadth enough in the world , I will hold a long distance . My duty to you . Your unfortunate son , BERTRAM . This is not well , rash and unbridled boy . To fly the favours of so good a king ; To pluck his indignation on thy head By the misprising of a maid too virtuous For the contempt of empire . Re-enter Clown
Clown : O madam , yonder is heavy news within between two soldiers and my young lady !
COUNTESS : What is the matter ?
Clown : Nay , there is some comfort in the news , some comfort ; your son will not be killed so soon as I thought he would .
COUNTESS : Why should he be killed ?
Clown : So say I , madam , if he run away , as I hear he does : the danger is in standing to 't ; that 's the loss of men , though it be the getting of children . Here they come will tell you more : for my part , I only hear your son was run away . Exit Enter HELENA , and two Gentlemen
First Gentleman : Save you , good madam .
HELENA : Madam , my lord is gone , for ever gone .
Second Gentleman : Do not say so .
COUNTESS : Think upon patience . Pray you , gentlemen , I have felt so many quirks of joy and grief , That the first face of neither , on the start , Can woman me unto 't : where is my son , I pray you ?
Second Gentleman : Madam , he 's gone to serve the duke of Florence : We met him thitherward ; for thence we came , And , after some dispatch in hand at court , Thither we bend again .
HELENA : Look on his letter , madam ; here 's my passport . Reads When thou canst get the ring upon my finger which never shall come off , and show me a child begotten of thy body that I am father to , then call me husband : but in such a ' then ' I write a ' never . ' This is a dreadful sentence .
COUNTESS : Brought you this letter , gentlemen ?
First Gentleman : Ay , madam ; And for the contents ' sake are sorry for our pain .
COUNTESS : I prithee , lady , have a better cheer ; If thou engrossest all the griefs are thine , Thou robb 'st me of a moiety : he was my son ; But I do wash his name out of my blood , And thou art all my child . Towards Florence is he ?
Second Gentleman : Ay , madam .
COUNTESS : And to be a soldier ?
Second Gentleman : Such is his noble purpose ; and believe ' t , The duke will lay upon him all the honour That good convenience claims .
COUNTESS : Return you thither ?
First Gentleman : Ay , madam , with the swiftest wing of speed .
HELENA : Till I have no wife I have nothing in France . ' Tis bitter .
COUNTESS : Find you that there ?
HELENA : Ay , madam .
First Gentleman : ' Tis but the boldness of his hand , haply , which his heart was not consenting to .
