First Lord : How mightily sometimes we make us comforts of our losses !
Second Lord : And how mightily some other times we drown our gain in tears ! The great dignity that his valour hath here acquired for him shall at home be encountered with a shame as ample .
First Lord : The web of our life is of a mingled yarn , good and ill together : our virtues would be proud , if our faults whipped them not ; and our crimes would despair , if they were not cherished by our virtues . Enter a Messenger How now ! where 's your master ?
Servant : He met the duke in the street , sir , of whom he hath taken a solemn leave : his lordship will next morning for France . The duke hath offered him letters of commendations to the king .
Second Lord : They shall be no more than needful there , if they were more than they can commend .
First Lord : They cannot be too sweet for the king 's tartness . Here 's his lordship now . Enter BERTRAM How now , my lord ! is 't not after midnight ?
BERTRAM : I have to-night dispatched sixteen businesses , a month 's length a-piece , by an abstract of success : I have congied with the duke , done my adieu with his nearest ; buried a wife , mourned for her ; writ to my lady mother I am returning ; entertained my convoy ; and between these main parcels of dispatch effected many nicer needs ; the last was the greatest , but that I have not ended yet .
Second Lord : If the business be of any difficulty , and this morning your departure hence , it requires haste of your lordship .
BERTRAM : I mean , the business is not ended , as fearing to hear of it hereafter . But shall we have this dialogue between the fool and the soldier ? Come , bring forth this counterfeit module , he has deceived me , like a double-meaning prophesier .
Second Lord : Bring him forth : has sat i ' the stocks all night , poor gallant knave .
BERTRAM : No matter : his heels have deserved it , in usurping his spurs so long . How does he carry himself ?
Second Lord : I have told your lordship already , the stocks carry him . But to answer you as you would be understood ; he weeps like a wench that had shed her milk : he hath confessed himself to Morgan , whom he supposes to be a friar , from the time of his remembrance to this very instant disaster of his setting i ' the stocks : and what think you he hath confessed ?
BERTRAM : Nothing of me , has a ' ?
Second Lord : His confession is taken , and it shall be read to his face : if your lordship be in 't , as I believe you are , you must have the patience to hear it . Enter PAROLLES guarded , and First Soldier
BERTRAM : A plague upon him ! muffled ! he can say nothing of me : hush , hush !
First Lord : Hoodman comes ! Portotartarosa
First Soldier : He calls for the tortures : what will you say without ' em ?
PAROLLES : I will confess what I know without constraint : if ye pinch me like a pasty , I can say no more .
First Soldier : Bosko chimurcho .
First Lord : Boblibindo chicurmurco .
First Soldier : You are a merciful general . Our general bids you answer to what I shall ask you out of a note .
PAROLLES : And truly , as I hope to live .
First Soldier : ' First demand of him how many horse the duke is strong . ' What say you to that ?
PAROLLES : Five or six thousand ; but very weak and unserviceable : the troops are all scattered , and the commanders very poor rogues , upon my reputation and credit and as I hope to live .
First Soldier : Shall I set down your answer so ?
PAROLLES : Do : I 'll take the sacrament on 't , how and which way you will .
BERTRAM : All 's one to him . What a past-saving slave is this !
