KING : Praising what is lost Makes the remembrance dear . Well , call him hither ; We are reconciled , and the first view shall kill All repetition : let him not ask our pardon ; The nature of his great offence is dead , And deeper than oblivion we do bury The incensing relics of it : let him approach , A stranger , no offender ; and inform him So ' tis our will he should .
Gentleman : I shall , my liege . Exit
KING : What says he to your daughter ? have you spoke ?
LAFEU : All that he is hath reference to your highness .
KING : Then shall we have a match . I have letters sent me That set him high in fame . Enter BERTRAM
LAFEU : He looks well on 't .
KING : I am not a day of season , For thou mayst see a sunshine and a hail In me at once : but to the brightest beams Distracted clouds give way ; so stand thou forth ; The time is fair again .
BERTRAM : My high-repented blames , Dear sovereign , pardon to me .
KING : All is whole ; Not one word more of the consumed time . Let 's take the instant by the forward top ; For we are old , and on our quick 'st decrees The inaudible and noiseless foot of Time Steals ere we can effect them . You remember The daughter of this lord ?
BERTRAM : Admiringly , my liege , at first I stuck my choice upon her , ere my heart Durst make too bold a herald of my tongue Where the impression of mine eye infixing , Contempt his scornful perspective did lend me , Which warp 'd the line of every other favour ; Scorn 'd a fair colour , or express 'd it stolen ; Extended or contracted all proportions To a most hideous object : thence it came That she whom all men praised and whom myself , Since I have lost , have loved , was in mine eye The dust that did offend it .
KING : Well excused : That thou didst love her , strikes some scores away From the great compt : but love that comes too late , Like a remorseful pardon slowly carried , To the great sender turns a sour offence , Crying , ' That 's good that 's gone . ' Our rash faults Make trivial price of serious things we have , Not knowing them until we know their grave : Oft our displeasures , to ourselves unjust , Destroy our friends and after weep their dust Our own love waking cries to see what 's done , While shame full late sleeps out the afternoon . Be this sweet Helen 's knell , and now forget her . Send forth your amorous token for fair Maudlin : The main consents are had ; and here we 'll stay To see our widower 's second marriage-day .
COUNTESS : Which better than the first , O dear heaven , bless ! Or , ere they meet , in me , O nature , cesse !
LAFEU : Come on , my son , in whom my house 's name Must be digested , give a favour from you To sparkle in the spirits of my daughter , That she may quickly come . BERTRAM gives a ring By my old beard , And every hair that 's on 't , Helen , that 's dead , Was a sweet creature : such a ring as this , The last that e 'er I took her at court , I saw upon her finger .
BERTRAM : Hers it was not .
KING : Now , pray you , let me see it ; for mine eye , While I was speaking , oft was fasten 'd to 't . This ring was mine ; and , when I gave it Helen , I bade her , if her fortunes ever stood Necessitied to help , that by this token I would relieve her . Had you that craft , to reave her Of what should stead her most ?
BERTRAM : My gracious sovereign , Howe 'er it pleases you to take it so , The ring was never hers .
