DICK : Or rather , of stealing a cade of herrings .
CADE : For our enemies shall fall before us , inspired with the spirit of putting down kings and princes , --Command silence .
DICK : Silence !
CADE : My father was a Mortimer , --
DICK : He was an honest man , and a good bricklayer .
CADE : My mother a Plantagenet , --
DICK : I knew her well ; she was a midwife .
CADE : My wife descended of the Lacies , --
DICK : She was , indeed , a pedler 's daughter , and sold many laces .
SMITH : But now of late , notable to travel with her furred pack , she washes bucks here at home .
CADE : Therefore am I of an honourable house .
DICK : Ay , by my faith , the field is honourable ; and there was he borne , under a hedge , for his father had never a house but the cage .
CADE : Valiant I am .
SMITH : A ' must needs ; for beggary is valiant .
CADE : I am able to endure much .
DICK : No question of that ; for I have seen him whipped three market-days together .
CADE : I fear neither sword nor fire .
SMITH : He need not fear the sword ; for his coat is of proof .
DICK : But methinks he should stand in fear of fire , being burnt i ' the hand for stealing of sheep .
CADE : Be brave , then ; for your captain is brave , and vows reformation . There shall be in England seven halfpenny loaves sold for a penny : the three-hooped pot ; shall have ten hoops and I will make it felony to drink small beer : all the realm shall be in common ; and in Cheapside shall my palfrey go to grass : and when I am king , as king I will be , --
ALL : God save your majesty !
CADE : I thank you , good people : there shall be no money ; all shall eat and drink on my score ; and I will apparel them all in one livery , that they may agree like brothers and worship me their lord .
DICK : The first thing we do , let 's kill all the lawyers .
CADE : Nay , that I mean to do . Is not this a lamentable thing , that of the skin of an innocent lamb should be made parchment ? that parchment , being scribbled o 'er , should undo a man ? Some say the bee stings : but I say , ' tis the bee 's wax ; for I did but seal once to a thing , and I was never mine own man since . How now ! who 's there ? Enter some , bringing forward the Clerk of Chatham
SMITH : The clerk of Chatham : he can write and read and cast accompt .
CADE : O monstrous !
SMITH : We took him setting of boys ' copies .
CADE : Here 's a villain !
SMITH : Has a book in his pocket with red letters in 't .
CADE : Nay , then , he is a conjurer .
DICK : Nay , he can make obligations , and write court-hand .
CADE : I am sorry for 't : the man is a proper man , of mine honour ; unless I find him guilty , he shall not die . Come hither , sirrah , I must examine thee : what is thy name ?
Clerk : Emmanuel .
DICK : They use to write it on the top of letters : ' twill go hard with you .
CADE : Let me alone . Dost thou use to write thy name ? or hast thou a mark to thyself , like an honest plain-dealing man ?
CLERK : Sir , I thank God , I have been so well brought up that I can write my name .
ALL : He hath confessed : away with him ! he 's a villain and a traitor .
CADE : Away with him , I say ! hang him with his pen and ink-horn about his neck . Exit one with the Clerk Enter MICHAEL
MICHAEL : Where 's our general ?
CADE : Here I am , thou particular fellow .
