BUCKINGHAM : Then linger not , my lord , away , take horse .
KING HENRY VI : Come , Margaret ; God , our hope , will succor us .
QUEEN MARGARET : My hope is gone , now Suffolk is deceased .
KING HENRY VI : Farewell , my lord : trust not the Kentish rebels .
BUCKINGHAM : Trust nobody , for fear you be betray 'd .
SAY : The trust I have is in mine innocence , And therefore am I bold and resolute . Enter SCALES upon the Tower , walking . Then enter two or three Citizens below
SCALES : How now ! is Jack Cade slain ?
First Citizen : No , my lord , nor likely to be slain ; for they have won the bridge , killing all those that withstand them : the lord mayor craves aid of your honour from the Tower , to defend the city from the rebels .
SCALES : Such aid as I can spare you shall command ; But I am troubled here with them myself ; The rebels have assay 'd to win the Tower . But get you to Smithfield , and gather head , And thither I will send you Matthew Goffe ; Fight for your king , your country and your lives ; And so , farewell , for I must hence again . Enter CADE and the rest , and strikes his staff on London-stone
CADE : Now is Mortimer lord of this city . And here , sitting upon London-stone , I charge and command that , of the city 's cost , the pissing-conduit run nothing but claret wine this first year of our reign . And now henceforward it shall be treason for any that calls me other than Lord Mortimer . Enter a Soldier , running
Soldier : Jack Cade ! Jack Cade !
CADE : Knock him down there . They kill him
SMITH : If this fellow be wise , he 'll never call ye Jack Cade more : I think he hath a very fair warning .
DICK : My lord , there 's an army gathered together in Smithfield .
CADE : Come , then , let 's go fight with them ; but first , go and set London bridge on fire ; and , if you can , burn down the Tower too . Come , let 's away . Alarums . MATTHEW GOFFE is slain , and all the rest . Then enter CADE , with his company .
CADE : So , sirs : now go some and pull down the Savoy ; others to the inns of court ; down with them all .
DICK : I have a suit unto your lordship .
CADE : Be it a lordship , thou shalt have it for that word .
DICK : Only that the laws of England may come out of your mouth .
HOLLAND : Mass , ' twill be sore law , then ; for he was thrust in the mouth with a spear , and ' tis not whole yet .
SMITH : Nay , John , it will be stinking law for his breath stinks with eating toasted cheese .
CADE : I have thought upon it , it shall be so . Away , burn all the records of the realm : my mouth shall be the parliament of England .
HOLLAND : Then we are like to have biting statutes , unless his teeth be pulled out .
CADE : And henceforward all things shall be in common . Enter a Messenger
Messenger : My lord , a prize , a prize ! here 's the Lord Say , which sold the towns in France ; he that made us pay one and twenty fifteens , and one shilling to the pound , the last subsidy . Enter BEVIS , with Lord SAY
