CADE : Stand , villain , stand , or I 'll fell thee down . He shall be encountered with a man as good as himself : he is but a knight , is a ' ?
MICHAEL : No .
CADE : To equal him , I will make myself a knight presently . Kneels Rise up Sir John Mortimer . Rises Now have at him ! Enter SIR HUMPHREY and WILLIAM STAFFORD , with drum and soldiers
SIR HUMPHREY : Rebellious hinds , the filth and scum of Kent , Mark 'd for the gallows , lay your weapons down ; Home to your cottages , forsake this groom : The king is merciful , if you revolt .
WILLIAM STAFFORD : But angry , wrathful , and inclined to blood , If you go forward ; therefore yield , or die .
CADE : As for these silken-coated slaves , I pass not : It is to you , good people , that I speak , Over whom , in time to come , I hope to reign ; For I am rightful heir unto the crown .
SIR HUMPHREY : Villain , thy father was a plasterer ; And thou thyself a shearman , art thou not ?
CADE : And Adam was a gardener .
WILLIAM STAFFORD : And what of that ?
CADE : Marry , this : Edmund Mortimer , Earl of March . Married the Duke of Clarence ' daughter , did he not ?
SIR HUMPHREY : Ay , sir .
CADE : By her he had two children at one birth .
WILLIAM STAFFORD : That 's false .
CADE : Ay , there 's the question ; but I say , ' tis true : The elder of them , being put to nurse , Was by a beggar-woman stolen away ; And , ignorant of his birth and parentage , Became a bricklayer when he came to age : His son am I ; deny it , if you can .
DICK : Nay , ' tis too true ; therefore he shall be king .
SMITH : Sir , he made a chimney in my father 's house , and the bricks are alive at this day to testify it ; therefore deny it not .
SIR HUMPHREY : And will you credit this base drudge 's words , That speaks he knows not what ?
ALL : Ay , marry , will we ; therefore get ye gone .
WILLIAM STAFFORD : Jack Cade , the Duke of York hath taught you this .
CADE : He lies , for I invented it myself . Go to , sirrah , tell the king from me , that , for his father 's sake , Henry the Fifth , in whose time boys went to span-counter for French crowns , I am content he shall reign ; but I 'll be protector over him .
DICK : And furthermore , well have the Lord Say 's head for selling the dukedom of Maine .
CADE : And good reason ; for thereby is England mained , and fain to go with a staff , but that my puissance holds it up . Fellow kings , I tell you that that Lord Say hath gelded the commonwealth , and made it an eunuch : and more than that , he can speak French ; and therefore he is a traitor .
SIR HUMPHREY : O gross and miserable ignorance !
CADE : Nay , answer , if you can : the Frenchmen are our enemies ; go to , then , I ask but this : can he that speaks with the tongue of an enemy be a good counsellor , or no ?
ALL : No , no ; and therefore we 'll have his head .
WILLIAM STAFFORD : Well , seeing gentle words will not prevail , Assail them with the army of the king .
SIR HUMPHREY : Herald , away ; and throughout every town Proclaim them traitors that are up with Cade ; That those which fly before the battle ends May , even in their wives ' and children 's sight , Be hang 'd up for example at their doors : And you that be the king 's friends , follow me .
