WARWICK : Father , the duke hath told the truth : Thus got the house of Lancaster the crown .
YORK : Which now they hold by force and not by right ; For Richard , the first son 's heir , being dead , The issue of the next son should have reign 'd .
SALISBURY : But William of Hatfield died without an heir .
YORK : The third son , Duke of Clarence , from whose line I claimed the crown , had issue , Philippe , a daughter , Who married Edmund Mortimer , Earl of March : Edmund had issue , Roger Earl of March ; Roger had issue , Edmund , Anne and Eleanor .
SALISBURY : This Edmund , in the reign of Bolingbroke , As I have read , laid claim unto the crown ; And , but for Owen Glendower , had been king , Who kept him in captivity till he died . But to the rest .
YORK : His eldest sister , Anne , My mother , being heir unto the crown Married Richard Earl of Cambridge ; who was son To Edmund Langley , Edward the Third 's fifth son . By her I claim the kingdom : she was heir To Roger Earl of March , who was the son Of Edmund Mortimer , who married Philippe , Sole daughter unto Lionel Duke of Clarence : So , if the issue of the elder son Succeed before the younger , I am king .
WARWICK : What plain proceeding is more plain than this ? Henry doth claim the crown from John of Gaunt , The fourth son ; York claims it from the third . Till Lionel 's issue fails , his should not reign : It fails not yet , but flourishes in thee And in thy sons , fair slips of such a stock . Then , father Salisbury , kneel we together ; And in this private plot be we the first That shall salute our rightful sovereign With honour of his birthright to the crown .
BOTH : Long live our sovereign Richard , England 's king !
YORK : We thank you , lords . But I am not your king Till I be crown 'd and that my sword be stain 'd With heart-blood of the house of Lancaster ; And that 's not suddenly to be perform 'd , But with advice and silent secrecy . Do you as I do in these dangerous days : Wink at the Duke of Suffolk 's insolence , At Beaufort 's pride , at Somerset 's ambition , At Buckingham and all the crew of them , Till they have snared the shepherd of the flock , That virtuous prince , the good Duke Humphrey : ' Tis that they seek , and they in seeking that Shall find their deaths , if York can prophesy .
SALISBURY : My lord , break we off ; we know your mind at full .
WARWICK : My heart assures me that the Earl of Warwick Shall one day make the Duke of York a king .
YORK : And , Nevil , this I do assure myself : Richard shall live to make the Earl of Warwick The greatest man in England but the king . Sound trumpets . Enter KING HENRY VI , QUEEN MARGARET , GLOUCESTER , YORK , SUFFOLK , and SALISBURY ; the DUCHESS , MARGARET JOURDAIN , SOUTHWELL , HUME , and BOLINGBROKE , under guard
KING HENRY VI : Stand forth , Dame Eleanor Cobham , Gloucester 's wife : In sight of God and us , your guilt is great : Receive the sentence of the law for sins Such as by God 's book are adjudged to death . You four , from hence to prison back again ; From thence unto the place of execution : The witch in Smithfield shall be burn 'd to ashes , And you three shall be strangled on the gallows . You , madam , for you are more nobly born , Despoiled of your honour in your life , Shall , after three days ' open penance done , Live in your country here in banishment , With Sir John Stanley , in the Isle of Man .
DUCHESS : Welcome is banishment ; welcome were my death .
