IDEN : Alexander Iden , that 's my name ; A poor esquire of Kent , that loves his king .
BUCKINGHAM : So please it you , my lord , ' twere not amiss He were created knight for his good service .
KING HENRY VI : Iden , kneel down . He kneels Rise up a knight . We give thee for reward a thousand marks , And will that thou henceforth attend on us .
IDEN : May Iden live to merit such a bounty . And never live but true unto his liege ! Rises Enter QUEEN MARGARET and SOMERSET
KING HENRY VI : See , Buckingham , Somerset comes with the queen : Go , bid her hide him quickly from the duke .
QUEEN MARGARET : For thousand Yorks he shall not hide his head , But boldly stand and front him to his face .
YORK : How now ! is Somerset at liberty ? Then , York , unloose thy long-imprison 'd thoughts , And let thy tongue be equal with thy heart . Shall I endure the sight of Somerset ? False king ! why hast thou broken faith with me , Knowing how hardly I can brook abuse ? King did I call thee ? no , thou art not king , Not fit to govern and rule multitudes , Which darest not , no , nor canst not rule a traitor . That head of thine doth not become a crown ; Thy hand is made to grasp a palmer 's staff , And not to grace an awful princely sceptre . That gold must round engirt these brows of mine , Whose smile and frown , like to Achilles ' spear , Is able with the change to kill and cure . Here is a hand to hold a sceptre up And with the same to act controlling laws . Give place : by heaven , thou shalt rule no more O 'er him whom heaven created for thy ruler .
SOMERSET : O monstrous traitor ! I arrest thee , York , Of capital treason ' gainst the king and crown ; Obey , audacious traitor ; kneel for grace .
YORK : Wouldst have me kneel ? first let me ask of these , If they can brook I bow a knee to man . Sirrah , call in my sons to be my bail ; Exit Attendant I know , ere they will have me go to ward , They 'll pawn their swords for my enfranchisement .
QUEEN MARGARET : Call hither Clifford ! bid him come amain , To say if that the bastard boys of York Shall be the surety for their traitor father . Exit BUCKINGHAM
YORK : O blood-besotted Neapolitan , Outcast of Naples , England 's bloody scourge ! The sons of York , thy betters in their birth , Shall be their father 's bail ; and bane to those That for my surety will refuse the boys ! Enter EDWARD and RICHARD See where they come : I 'll warrant they 'll make it good . Enter CLIFFORD and YOUNG CLIFFORD
QUEEN MARGARET : And here comes Clifford to deny their bail .
CLIFFORD : Health and all happiness to my lord the king ! Kneels
YORK : I thank thee , Clifford : say , what news with thee ? Nay , do not fright us with an angry look ; We are thy sovereign , Clifford , kneel again ; For thy mistaking so , we pardon thee .
CLIFFORD : This is my king , York , I do not mistake ; But thou mistakest me much to think I do : To Bedlam with him ! is the man grown mad ?
KING HENRY VI : Ay , Clifford ; a bedlam and ambitious humour Makes him oppose himself against his king .
CLIFFORD : He is a traitor ; let him to the Tower , And chop away that factious pate of his .
QUEEN MARGARET : He is arrested , but will not obey ; His sons , he says , shall give their words for him .
YORK : Will you not , sons ?
EDWARD : Ay , noble father , if our words will serve .
RICHARD : And if words will not , then our weapons shall .
CLIFFORD : Why , what a brood of traitors have we here !
