CARDINAL : Nephew , what means this passionate discourse , This peroration with such circumstance ? For France , ' tis ours ; and we will keep it still .
GLOUCESTER : Ay , uncle , we will keep it , if we can ; But now it is impossible we should : Suffolk , the new-made duke that rules the roast , Hath given the duchy of Anjou and Maine Unto the poor King Reignier , whose large style Agrees not with the leanness of his purse .
SALISBURY : Now , by the death of Him that died for all , These counties were the keys of Normandy . But wherefore weeps Warwick , my valiant son ?
WARWICK : For grief that they are past recovery : For , were there hope to conquer them again , My sword should shed hot blood , mine eyes no tears . Anjou and Maine ! myself did win them both ; Those provinces these arms of mine did conquer : And are the cities , that I got with wounds , Delivered up again with peaceful words ? Mort Dieu !
YORK : For Suffolk 's duke , may he be suffocate , That dims the honour of this warlike isle ! France should have torn and rent my very heart , Before I would have yielded to this league . I never read but England 's kings have had Large sums of gold and dowries with their wives : And our King Henry gives away his own , To match with her that brings no vantages .
GLOUCESTER : A proper jest , and never heard before , That Suffolk should demand a whole fifteenth For costs and charges in transporting her ! She should have stayed in France and starved in France , Before--
CARDINAL : My Lord of Gloucester , now ye grow too hot : It was the pleasure of my lord the King .
GLOUCESTER : My Lord of Winchester , I know your mind ; ' Tis not my speeches that you do mislike , But ' tis my presence that doth trouble ye . Rancour will out : proud prelate , in thy face I see thy fury : if I longer stay , We shall begin our ancient bickerings . Lordings , farewell ; and say , when I am gone , I prophesied France will be lost ere long . Exit
CARDINAL : So , there goes our protector in a rage . ' Tis known to you he is mine enemy , Nay , more , an enemy unto you all , And no great friend , I fear me , to the king . Consider , lords , he is the next of blood , And heir apparent to the English crown : Had Henry got an empire by his marriage , And all the wealthy kingdoms of the west , There 's reason he should be displeased at it . Look to it , lords ! let not his smoothing words Bewitch your hearts ; be wise and circumspect . What though the common people favour him , Calling him ' Humphrey , the good Duke of Gloucester , ' Clapping their hands , and crying with loud voice , ' Jesu maintain your royal excellence ! ' With ' God preserve the good Duke Humphrey ! ' I fear me , lords , for all this flattering gloss , He will be found a dangerous protector .
BUCKINGHAM : Why should he , then , protect our sovereign , He being of age to govern of himself ? Cousin of Somerset , join you with me , And all together , with the Duke of Suffolk , We 'll quickly hoise Duke Humphrey from his seat .
CARDINAL : This weighty business will not brook delay : I 'll to the Duke of Suffolk presently . Exit
SOMERSET : Cousin of Buckingham , though Humphrey 's pride And greatness of his place be grief to us , Yet let us watch the haughty cardinal : His insolence is more intolerable Than all the princes in the land beside : If Gloucester be displaced , he 'll be protector .
BUCKINGHAM : Or thou or I , Somerset , will be protector , Despite Duke Humphrey or the cardinal .
