SUFFOLK : Well hath your highness seen into this duke ; And , had I first been put to speak my mind , I think I should have told your grace 's tale . The duchess , by his subornation , Upon my life , began her devilish practises : Or , if he were not privy to those faults , Yet , by reputing of his high descent , As next the king he was successive heir , And such high vaunts of his nobility , Did instigate the bedlam brain-sick duchess By wicked means to frame our sovereign 's fall . Smooth runs the water where the brook is deep ; And in his simple show he harbours treason . The fox barks not when he would steal the lamb . No , no , my sovereign ; Gloucester is a man Unsounded yet and full of deep deceit .
CARDINAL : Did he not , contrary to form of law , Devise strange deaths for small offences done ?
YORK : And did he not , in his protectorship , Levy great sums of money through the realm For soldiers ' pay in France , and never sent it ? By means whereof the towns each day revolted .
BUCKINGHAM : Tut , these are petty faults to faults unknown . Which time will bring to light in smooth Duke Humphrey .
KING HENRY VI : My lords , at once : the care you have of us , To mow down thorns that would annoy our foot , Is worthy praise : but , shall I speak my conscience , Our kinsman Gloucester is as innocent From meaning treason to our royal person As is the sucking lamb or harmless dove : The duke is virtuous , mild and too well given To dream on evil or to work my downfall .
QUEEN MARGARET : Ah , what 's more dangerous than this fond affiance ! Seems he a dove ? his feathers are but borrowed , For he 's disposed as the hateful raven : Is he a lamb ? his skin is surely lent him , For he 's inclined as is the ravenous wolf . Who cannot steal a shape that means deceit ? Take heed , my lord ; the welfare of us all Hangs on the cutting short that fraudful man . Enter SOMERSET
SOMERSET : All health unto my gracious sovereign !
KING HENRY VI : Welcome , Lord Somerset . What news from France ?
SOMERSET : That all your interest in those territories Is utterly bereft you ; all is lost .
KING HENRY VI : Cold news , Lord Somerset : but God 's will be done !
YORK : Cold news for me ; for I had hope of France As firmly as I hope for fertile England . Thus are my blossoms blasted in the bud And caterpillars eat my leaves away ; But I will remedy this gear ere long , Or sell my title for a glorious grave . Enter GLOUCESTER
GLOUCESTER : All happiness unto my lord the king ! Pardon , my liege , that I have stay 'd so long .
SUFFOLK : Nay , Gloucester , know that thou art come too soon , Unless thou wert more loyal than thou art : I do arrest thee of high treason here .
GLOUCESTER : Well , Suffolk , thou shalt not see me blush Nor change my countenance for this arrest : A heart unspotted is not easily daunted . The purest spring is not so free from mud As I am clear from treason to my sovereign : Who can accuse me ? wherein am I guilty ?
YORK : ' Tis thought , my lord , that you took bribes of France , And , being protector , stayed the soldiers ' pay ; By means whereof his highness hath lost France .
