CARDINAL : It serves you well , my lord , to say so much .
GLOUCESTER : I say no more than truth , so help me God !
YORK : In your protectorship you did devise Strange tortures for offenders never heard of , That England was defamed by tyranny .
GLOUCESTER : Why , ' tis well known that , whiles I was protector , Pity was all the fault that was in me ; For I should melt at an offender 's tears , And lowly words were ransom for their fault . Unless it were a bloody murderer , Or foul felonious thief that fleeced poor passengers , I never gave them condign punishment : Murder indeed , that bloody sin , I tortured Above the felon or what trespass else .
SUFFOLK : My lord , these faults are easy , quickly answered : But mightier crimes are laid unto your charge , Whereof you cannot easily purge yourself . I do arrest you in his highness ' name ; And here commit you to my lord cardinal To keep , until your further time of trial .
KING HENRY VI : My lord of Gloucester , ' tis my special hope That you will clear yourself from all suspect : My conscience tells me you are innocent .
GLOUCESTER : Ah , gracious lord , these days are dangerous : Virtue is choked with foul ambition And charity chased hence by rancour 's hand ; Foul subornation is predominant And equity exiled your highness ' land . I know their complot is to have my life , And if my death might make this island happy , And prove the period of their tyranny , I would expend it with all willingness : But mine is made the prologue to their play ; For thousands more , that yet suspect no peril , Will not conclude their plotted tragedy . Beaufort 's red sparkling eyes blab his heart 's malice , And Suffolk 's cloudy brow his stormy hate ; Sharp Buckingham unburthens with his tongue The envious load that lies upon his heart ; And dogged York , that reaches at the moon , Whose overweening arm I have pluck 'd back , By false accuse doth level at my life : And you , my sovereign lady , with the rest , Causeless have laid disgraces on my head , And with your best endeavour have stirr 'd up My liefest liege to be mine enemy : Ay , all you have laid your heads together-- Myself had notice of your conventicles-- And all to make away my guiltless life . I shall not want false witness to condemn me , Nor store of treasons to augment my guilt ; The ancient proverb will be well effected : ' A staff is quickly found to beat a dog . ' 
CARDINAL : My liege , his railing is intolerable : If those that care to keep your royal person From treason 's secret knife and traitors ' rage Be thus upbraided , chid and rated at , And the offender granted scope of speech , ' Twill make them cool in zeal unto your grace .
SUFFOLK : Hath he not twit our sovereign lady here With ignominious words , though clerkly couch 'd , As if she had suborned some to swear False allegations to o 'erthrow his state ?
QUEEN MARGARET : But I can give the loser leave to chide .
GLOUCESTER : Far truer spoke than meant : I lose , indeed ; Beshrew the winners , for they play 'd me false ! And well such losers may have leave to speak .
BUCKINGHAM : He 'll wrest the sense and hold us here all day : Lord cardinal , he is your prisoner .
CARDINAL : Sirs , take away the duke , and guard him sure .
GLOUCESTER : Ah ! thus King Henry throws away his crutch Before his legs be firm to bear his body . Thus is the shepherd beaten from thy side , And wolves are gnarling who shall gnaw thee first . Ah , that my fear were false ! ah , that it were ! For , good King Henry , thy decay I fear . Exit , guarded
KING HENRY VI : My lords , what to your wisdoms seemeth best , Do or undo , as if ourself were here .
QUEEN MARGARET : What , will your highness leave the parliament ?
