SUFFOLK : Thou shall be waking well I shed thy blood , If from this presence thou darest go with me .
WARWICK : Away even now , or I will drag thee hence : Unworthy though thou art , I 'll cope with thee And do some service to Duke Humphrey 's ghost .
KING HENRY VI : What stronger breastplate than a heart untainted ! Thrice is he armed that hath his quarrel just , And he but naked , though lock 'd up in steel Whose conscience with injustice is corrupted . A noise within
QUEEN MARGARET : What noise is this ? Re-enter SUFFOLK and WARWICK , with their weapons drawn
KING HENRY VI : Why , how now , lords ! your wrathful weapons drawn Here in our presence ! dare you be so bold ? Why , what tumultuous clamour have we here ?
SUFFOLK : The traitorous Warwick with the men of Bury Set all upon me , mighty sovereign .
SALISBURY : Sirs , stand apart ; the king shall know your mind . Dread lord , the commons send you word by me , Unless Lord Suffolk straight be done to death , Or banished fair England 's territories , They will by violence tear him from your palace And torture him with grievous lingering death . They say , by him the good Duke Humphrey died ; They say , in him they fear your highness ' death ; And mere instinct of love and loyalty , Free from a stubborn opposite intent , As being thought to contradict your liking , Makes them thus forward in his banishment . They say , in care of your most royal person , That if your highness should intend to sleep And charge that no man should disturb your rest In pain of your dislike or pain of death , Yet , notwithstanding such a strait edict , Were there a serpent seen , with forked tongue , That slily glided towards your majesty , It were but necessary you were waked , Lest , being suffer 'd in that harmful slumber , The mortal worm might make the sleep eternal ; And therefore do they cry , though you forbid , That they will guard you , whether you will or no , From such fell serpents as false Suffolk is , With whose envenomed and fatal sting , Your loving uncle , twenty times his worth , They say , is shamefully bereft of life .
Commons : An answer from the king , my Lord of Salisbury !
SUFFOLK : ' Tis like the commons , rude unpolish 'd hinds , Could send such message to their sovereign : But you , my lord , were glad to be employ 'd , To show how quaint an orator you are : But all the honour Salisbury hath won Is , that he was the lord ambassador Sent from a sort of tinkers to the king .
Commons : An answer from the king , or we will all break in !
KING HENRY VI : Go , Salisbury , and tell them all from me . I thank them for their tender loving care ; And had I not been cited so by them , Yet did I purpose as they do entreat ; For , sure , my thoughts do hourly prophesy Mischance unto my state by Suffolk 's means : And therefore , by His majesty I swear , Whose far unworthy deputy I am , He shall not breathe infection in this air But three days longer , on the pain of death . Exit SALISBURY
QUEEN MARGARET : O Henry , let me plead for gentle Suffolk !
KING HENRY VI : Ungentle queen , to call him gentle Suffolk ! No more , I say : if thou dost plead for him , Thou wilt but add increase unto my wrath . Had I but said , I would have kept my word , But when I swear , it is irrevocable . If , after three days ' space , thou here be 'st found On any ground that I am ruler of , The world shall not be ransom for thy life . Come , Warwick , come , good Warwick , go with me ; I have great matters to impart to thee .
