KING HENRY VI : Ah , woe is me for Gloucester , wretched man !
QUEEN MARGARET : Be woe for me , more wretched than he is . What , dost thou turn away and hide thy face ? I am no loathsome leper ; look on me . What ! art thou , like the adder , waxen deaf ? Be poisonous too and kill thy forlorn queen . Is all thy comfort shut in Gloucester 's tomb ? Why , then , dame Margaret was ne 'er thy joy . Erect his statue and worship it , And make my image but an alehouse sign . Was I for this nigh wreck 'd upon the sea And twice by awkward wind from England 's bank Drove back again unto my native clime ? What boded this , but well forewarning wind Did seem to say ' Seek not a scorpion 's nest , Nor set no footing on this unkind shore ' ? What did I then , but cursed the gentle gusts And he that loosed them forth their brazen caves : And bid them blow towards England 's blessed shore , Or turn our stern upon a dreadful rock Yet AEolus would not be a murderer , But left that hateful office unto thee : The pretty-vaulting sea refused to drown me , Knowing that thou wouldst have me drown 'd on shore , With tears as salt as sea , through thy unkindness : The splitting rocks cower 'd in the sinking sands And would not dash me with their ragged sides , Because thy flinty heart , more hard than they , Might in thy palace perish Margaret . As far as I could ken thy chalky cliffs , When from thy shore the tempest beat us back , I stood upon the hatches in the storm , And when the dusky sky began to rob My earnest-gaping sight of thy land 's view , I took a costly jewel from my neck , A heart it was , bound in with diamonds , And threw it towards thy land : the sea received it , And so I wish 'd thy body might my heart : And even with this I lost fair England 's view And bid mine eyes be packing with my heart And call 'd them blind and dusky spectacles , For losing ken of Albion 's wished coast . How often have I tempted Suffolk 's tongue , The agent of thy foul inconstancy , To sit and witch me , as Ascanius did When he to madding Dido would unfold His father 's acts commenced in burning Troy ! Am I not witch 'd like her ? or thou not false like him ? Ay me , I can no more ! die , Margaret ! For Henry weeps that thou dost live so long . Noise within . Enter WARWICK , SALISBURY , and many Commons
WARWICK : It is reported , mighty sovereign , That good Duke Humphrey traitorously is murder 'd By Suffolk and the Cardinal Beaufort 's means . The commons , like an angry hive of bees That want their leader , scatter up and down And care not who they sting in his revenge . Myself have calm 'd their spleenful mutiny , Until they hear the order of his death .
KING HENRY VI : That he is dead , good Warwick , ' tis too true ; But how he died God knows , not Henry : Enter his chamber , view his breathless corpse , And comment then upon his sudden death .
WARWICK : That shall I do , my liege . Stay , Salisbury , With the rude multitude till I return . Exit
