SUFFOLK : Before we make election , give me leave To show some reason , of no little force , That York is most unmeet of any man .
YORK : I 'll tell thee , Suffolk , why I am unmeet : First , for I cannot flatter thee in pride ; Next , if I be appointed for the place , My Lord of Somerset will keep me here , Without discharge , money , or furniture , Till France be won into the Dauphin 's hands : Last time , I danced attendance on his will Till Paris was besieged , famish 'd , and lost .
WARWICK : That can I witness ; and a fouler fact Did never traitor in the land commit .
SUFFOLK : Peace , headstrong Warwick !
WARWICK : Image of pride , why should I hold my peace ? Enter HORNER , the Armourer , and his man PETER , guarded
SUFFOLK : Because here is a man accused of treason : Pray God the Duke of York excuse himself !
YORK : Doth any one accuse York for a traitor ?
KING HENRY VI : What mean 'st thou , Suffolk ; tell me , what are these ?
SUFFOLK : Please it your majesty , this is the man That doth accuse his master of high treason : His words were these : that Richard , Duke of York , Was rightful heir unto the English crown And that your majesty was a usurper .
KING HENRY VI : Say , man , were these thy words ?
HORNER : An 't shall please your majesty , I never said nor thought any such matter : God is my witness , I am falsely accused by the villain .
PETER : By these ten bones , my lords , he did speak them to me in the garret one night , as we were scouring my Lord of York 's armour .
YORK : Base dunghill villain and mechanical , I 'll have thy head for this thy traitor 's speech . I do beseech your royal majesty , Let him have all the rigor of the law .
HORNER : Alas , my lord , hang me , if ever I spake the words . My accuser is my ' prentice ; and when I did correct him for his fault the other day , he did vow upon his knees he would be even with me : I have good witness of this : therefore I beseech your majesty , do not cast away an honest man for a villain 's accusation .
KING HENRY VI : Uncle , what shall we say to this in law ?
GLOUCESTER : This doom , my lord , if I may judge : Let Somerset be regent over the French , Because in York this breeds suspicion : And let these have a day appointed them For single combat in convenient place , For he hath witness of his servant 's malice : This is the law , and this Duke Humphrey 's doom .
SOMERSET : I humbly thank your royal majesty .
HORNER : And I accept the combat willingly .
PETER : Alas , my lord , I cannot fight ; for God 's sake , pity my case . The spite of man prevaileth against me . O Lord , have mercy upon me ! I shall never be able to fight a blow . O Lord , my heart !
GLOUCESTER : Sirrah , or you must fight , or else be hang 'd .
KING HENRY VI : Away with them to prison ; and the day of combat shall be the last of the next month . Come , Somerset , we 'll see thee sent away . Enter MARGARET JOURDAIN , HUME , SOUTHWELL , and BOLINGBROKE
HUME : Come , my masters ; the duchess , I tell you , expects performance of your promises .
BOLINGBROKE : Master Hume , we are therefore provided : will her ladyship behold and hear our exorcisms ?
HUME : Ay , what else ? fear you not her courage .
