First Petitioner : My masters , let 's stand close : my lord protector will come this way by and by , and then we may deliver our supplications in the quill .
Second Petitioner : Marry , the Lord protect him , for he 's a good man ! Jesu bless him ! Enter SUFFOLK and QUEEN MARGARET
PETER : Here a ' comes , methinks , and the queen with him . I 'll be the first , sure .
Second Petitioner : Come back , fool ; this is the Duke of Suffolk , and not my lord protector .
SUFFOLK : How now , fellow ! would 'st anything with me ?
First Petitioner : I pray , my lord , pardon me ; I took ye for my lord protector .
QUEEN MARGARET : ' To my Lord Protector ! ' Are your supplications to his lordship ? Let me see them : what is thine ?
First Petitioner : Mine is , an 't please your grace , against John Goodman , my lord cardinal 's man , for keeping my house , and lands , and wife and all , from me .
SUFFOLK : Thy wife , too ! that 's some wrong , indeed . What 's yours ? What 's here ! Reads ' Against the Duke of Suffolk , for enclosing the commons of Melford . ' How now , sir knave !
Second Petitioner : Alas , sir , I am but a poor petitioner of our whole township .
PETER : Against my master , Thomas Horner , for saying that the Duke of York was rightful heir to the crown .
QUEEN MARGARET : What sayst thou ? did the Duke of York say he was rightful heir to the crown ?
PETER : That my master was ? no , forsooth : my master said that he was , and that the king was an usurper .
SUFFOLK : Who is there ? Enter Servant Take this fellow in , and send for his master with a pursuivant presently : we 'll hear more of your matter before the King . Exit Servant with PETER
QUEEN MARGARET : And as for you , that love to be protected Under the wings of our protector 's grace , Begin your suits anew , and sue to him . Tears the supplication Away , base cullions ! Suffolk , let them go .
ALL : Come , let 's be gone .
QUEEN MARGARET : My Lord of Suffolk , say , is this the guise , Is this the fashion in the court of England ? Is this the government of Britain 's isle , And this the royalty of Albion 's king ? What shall King Henry be a pupil still Under the surly Gloucester 's governance ? Am I a queen in title and in style , And must be made a subject to a duke ? I tell thee , Pole , when in the city Tours Thou ran 'st a tilt in honour of my love And stolest away the ladies ' hearts of France , I thought King Henry had resembled thee In courage , courtship and proportion : But all his mind is bent to holiness , To number Ave-Maries on his beads ; His champions are the prophets and apostles , His weapons holy saws of sacred writ , His study is his tilt-yard , and his loves Are brazen images of canonized saints . I would the college of the cardinals Would choose him pope , and carry him to Rome , And set the triple crown upon his head : That were a state fit for his holiness .
SUFFOLK : Madam , be patient : as I was cause Your highness came to England , so will I In England work your grace 's full content .
QUEEN MARGARET : Beside the haughty protector , have we Beaufort , The imperious churchman , Somerset , Buckingham , And grumbling York : and not the least of these But can do more in England than the king .
SUFFOLK : And he of these that can do most of all Cannot do more in England than the Nevils : Salisbury and Warwick are no simple peers .
