SUFFOLK : Cease , gentle queen , these execrations , And let thy Suffolk take his heavy leave .
QUEEN MARGARET : Fie , coward woman and soft-hearted wretch ! Hast thou not spirit to curse thine enemy ?
SUFFOLK : A plague upon them ! wherefore should I curse them ? Would curses kill , as doth the mandrake 's groan , I would invent as bitter-searching terms , As curst , as harsh and horrible to hear , Deliver 'd strongly through my fixed teeth , With full as many signs of deadly hate , As lean-faced Envy in her loathsome cave : My tongue should stumble in mine earnest words ; Mine eyes should sparkle like the beaten flint ; Mine hair be fixed on end , as one distract ; Ay , every joint should seem to curse and ban : And even now my burthen 'd heart would break , Should I not curse them . Poison be their drink ! Gall , worse than gall , the daintiest that they taste ! Their sweetest shade a grove of cypress trees ! Their chiefest prospect murdering basilisks ! Their softest touch as smart as lizards ' sting ! Their music frightful as the serpent 's hiss , And boding screech-owls make the concert full ! All the foul terrors in dark-seated hell--
QUEEN MARGARET : Enough , sweet Suffolk ; thou torment 'st thyself ; And these dread curses , like the sun ' gainst glass , Or like an overcharged gun , recoil , And turn the force of them upon thyself .
SUFFOLK : You bade me ban , and will you bid me leave ? Now , by the ground that I am banish 'd from , Well could I curse away a winter 's night , Though standing naked on a mountain top , Where biting cold would never let grass grow , And think it but a minute spent in sport .
QUEEN MARGARET : O , let me entreat thee cease . Give me thy hand , That I may dew it with my mournful tears ; Nor let the rain of heaven wet this place , To wash away my woful monuments . O , could this kiss be printed in thy hand , That thou mightst think upon these by the seal , Through whom a thousand sighs are breathed for thee ! So , get thee gone , that I may know my grief ; ' Tis but surmised whiles thou art standing by , As one that surfeits thinking on a want . I will repeal thee , or , be well assured , Adventure to be banished myself : And banished I am , if but from thee . Go ; speak not to me ; even now be gone . O , go not yet ! Even thus two friends condemn 'd Embrace and kiss and take ten thousand leaves , Loather a hundred times to part than die . Yet now farewell ; and farewell life with thee !
SUFFOLK : Thus is poor Suffolk ten times banished ; Once by the king , and three times thrice by thee . ' Tis not the land I care for , wert thou thence ; A wilderness is populous enough , So Suffolk had thy heavenly company : For where thou art , there is the world itself , With every several pleasure in the world , And where thou art not , desolation . I can no more : live thou to joy thy life ; Myself no joy in nought but that thou livest . Enter VAUX
QUEEN MARGARET : Wither goes Vaux so fast ? what news , I prithee ?
VAUX : To signify unto his majesty That Cardinal Beaufort is at point of death ; For suddenly a grievous sickness took him , That makes him gasp and stare and catch the air , Blaspheming God and cursing men on earth . Sometimes he talks as if Duke Humphrey 's ghost Were by his side ; sometime he calls the king , And whispers to his pillow , as to him , The secrets of his overcharged soul ; And I am sent to tell his majesty That even now he cries aloud for him .
