WARWICK : Come hither , gracious sovereign , view this body .
KING HENRY VI : That is to see how deep my grave is made ; For with his soul fled all my worldly solace , For seeing him I see my life in death .
WARWICK : As surely as my soul intends to live With that dread King that took our state upon him To free us from his father 's wrathful curse , I do believe that violent hands were laid Upon the life of this thrice-famed duke .
SUFFOLK : A dreadful oath , sworn with a solemn tongue ! What instance gives Lord Warwick for his vow ?
WARWICK : See how the blood is settled in his face . Oft have I seen a timely-parted ghost , Of ashy semblance , meagre , pale and bloodless , Being all descended to the labouring heart ; Who , in the conflict that it holds with death , Attracts the same for aidance ' gainst the enemy ; Which with the heart there cools and ne 'er returneth To blush and beautify the cheek again . But see , his face is black and full of blood , His eye-balls further out than when he lived , Staring full ghastly like a strangled man ; His hair uprear 'd , his nostrils stretched with struggling ; His hands abroad display 'd , as one that grasp 'd And tugg 'd for life and was by strength subdued : Look , on the sheets his hair you see , is sticking ; His well-proportion 'd beard made rough and rugged , Like to the summer 's corn by tempest lodged . It cannot be but he was murder 'd here ; The least of all these signs were probable .
SUFFOLK : Why , Warwick , who should do the duke to death ? Myself and Beaufort had him in protection ; And we , I hope , sir , are no murderers .
WARWICK : But both of you were vow 'd Duke Humphrey 's foes , And you , forsooth , had the good duke to keep : ' Tis like you would not feast him like a friend ; And ' tis well seen he found an enemy .
QUEEN MARGARET : Then you , belike , suspect these noblemen As guilty of Duke Humphrey 's timeless death .
WARWICK : Who finds the heifer dead and bleeding fresh And sees fast by a butcher with an axe , But will suspect ' twas he that made the slaughter ? Who finds the partridge in the puttock 's nest , But may imagine how the bird was dead , Although the kite soar with unbloodied beak ? Even so suspicious is this tragedy .
QUEEN MARGARET : Are you the butcher , Suffolk ? Where 's your knife ? Is Beaufort term 'd a kite ? Where are his talons ?
SUFFOLK : I wear no knife to slaughter sleeping men ; But here 's a vengeful sword , rusted with ease , That shall be scoured in his rancorous heart That slanders me with murder 's crimson badge . Say , if thou darest , proud Lord of Warwick-shire , That I am faulty in Duke Humphrey 's death .
WARWICK : What dares not Warwick , if false Suffolk dare him ?
QUEEN MARGARET : He dares not calm his contumelious spirit Nor cease to be an arrogant controller , Though Suffolk dare him twenty thousand times .
WARWICK : Madam , be still ; with reverence may I say ; For every word you speak in his behalf Is slander to your royal dignity .
SUFFOLK : Blunt-witted lord , ignoble in demeanor ! If ever lady wrong 'd her lord so much , Thy mother took into her blameful bed Some stern untutor 'd churl , and noble stock Was graft with crab-tree slip ; whose fruit thou art , And never of the Nevils ' noble race .
