YORK : Dispatch : this knave 's tongue begins to double . Sound , trumpets , alarum to the combatants ! Alarum . They fight , and PETER strikes him down
HORNER : Hold , Peter , hold ! I confess , I confess treason . Dies
YORK : Take away his weapon . Fellow , thank God , and the good wine in thy master 's way .
PETER : O God , have I overcome mine enemy in this presence ? O Peter , thou hast prevailed in right !
KING HENRY VI : Go , take hence that traitor from our sight ; For his death we do perceive his guilt : And God in justice hath revealed to us The truth and innocence of this poor fellow , Which he had thought to have murder 'd wrongfully . Come , fellow , follow us for thy reward . Enter GLOUCESTER and his Servingmen , in mourning cloaks
GLOUCESTER : Thus sometimes hath the brightest day a cloud ; And after summer evermore succeeds Barren winter , with his wrathful nipping cold : So cares and joys abound , as seasons fleet . Sirs , what 's o 'clock ?
Servants : Ten , my lord .
GLOUCESTER : Ten is the hour that was appointed me To watch the coming of my punish 'd duchess : Uneath may she endure the flinty streets , To tread them with her tender-feeling feet . Sweet Nell , ill can thy noble mind abrook The abject people gazing on thy face , With envious looks , laughing at thy shame , That erst did follow thy proud chariot-wheels When thou didst ride in triumph through the streets . But , soft ! I think she comes ; and I 'll prepare My tear-stain 'd eyes to see her miseries . Enter the DUCHESS in a white sheet , and a taper burning in her hand ; with STANLEY , the Sheriff , and Officers
Servant : So please your grace , we 'll take her from the sheriff .
GLOUCESTER : No , stir not , for your lives ; let her pass by .
DUCHESS : Come you , my lord , to see my open shame ? Now thou dost penance too . Look how they gaze ! See how the giddy multitude do point , And nod their heads , and throw their eyes on thee ! Ah , Gloucester , hide thee from their hateful looks , And , in thy closet pent up , rue my shame , And ban thine enemies , both mine and thine !
GLOUCESTER : Be patient , gentle Nell ; forget this grief .
DUCHESS : Ah , Gloucester , teach me to forget myself ! For whilst I think I am thy married wife And thou a prince , protector of this land , Methinks I should not thus be led along , Mail 'd up in shame , with papers on my back , And followed with a rabble that rejoice To see my tears and hear my deep-fet groans . The ruthless flint doth cut my tender feet , And when I start , the envious people laugh And bid me be advised how I tread . Ah , Humphrey , can I bear this shameful yoke ? Trow 'st thou that e 'er I 'll look upon the world , Or count them happy that enjoy the sun ? No ; dark shall be my light and night my day ; To think upon my pomp shall be my hell . Sometime I 'll say , I am Duke Humphrey 's wife , And he a prince and ruler of the land : Yet so he ruled and such a prince he was As he stood by whilst I , his forlorn duchess , Was made a wonder and a pointing-stock To every idle rascal follower . But be thou mild and blush not at my shame , Nor stir at nothing till the axe of death Hang over thee , as , sure , it shortly will ; For Suffolk , he that can do all in all With her that hateth thee and hates us all , And York and impious Beaufort , that false priest , Have all limed bushes to betray thy wings , And , fly thou how thou canst , they 'll tangle thee : But fear not thou , until thy foot be snared , Nor never seek prevention of thy foes .
