CLIFFORD : Are these thy bears ? we 'll bait thy bears to death . And manacle the bear-ward in their chains , If thou darest bring them to the baiting place .
RICHARD : Oft have I seen a hot o 'erweening cur Run back and bite , because he was withheld ; Who , being suffer 'd with the bear 's fell paw , Hath clapp 'd his tail between his legs and cried : And such a piece of service will you do , If you oppose yourselves to match Lord Warwick .
CLIFFORD : Hence , heap of wrath , foul indigested lump , As crooked in thy manners as thy shape !
YORK : Nay , we shall heat you thoroughly anon .
CLIFFORD : Take heed , lest by your heat you burn yourselves .
KING HENRY VI : Why , Warwick , hath thy knee forgot to bow ? Old Salisbury , shame to thy silver hair , Thou mad misleader of thy brain-sick son ! What , wilt thou on thy death-bed play the ruffian , And seek for sorrow with thy spectacles ? O , where is faith ? O , where is loyalty ? If it be banish 'd from the frosty head , Where shall it find a harbour in the earth ? Wilt thou go dig a grave to find out war , And shame thine honourable age with blood ? Why art thou old , and want 'st experience ? Or wherefore dost abuse it , if thou hast it ? For shame ! in duty bend thy knee to me That bows unto the grave with mickle age .
SALISBURY : My lord , I have consider 'd with myself The title of this most renowned duke ; And in my conscience do repute his grace The rightful heir to England 's royal seat .
KING HENRY VI : Hast thou not sworn allegiance unto me ?
SALISBURY : I have .
KING HENRY VI : Canst thou dispense with heaven for such an oath ?
SALISBURY : It is great sin to swear unto a sin , But greater sin to keep a sinful oath . Who can be bound by any solemn vow To do a murderous deed , to rob a man , To force a spotless virgin 's chastity , To reave the orphan of his patrimony , To wring the widow from her custom 'd right , And have no other reason for this wrong But that he was bound by a solemn oath ?
QUEEN MARGARET : A subtle traitor needs no sophister .
KING HENRY VI : Call Buckingham , and bid him arm himself .
YORK : Call Buckingham , and all the friends thou hast , I am resolved for death or dignity .
CLIFFORD : The first I warrant thee , if dreams prove true .
WARWICK : You were best to go to bed and dream again , To keep thee from the tempest of the field .
CLIFFORD : I am resolved to bear a greater storm Than any thou canst conjure up to-day ; And that I 'll write upon thy burgonet , Might I but know thee by thy household badge .
WARWICK : Now , by my father 's badge , old Nevil 's crest , The rampant bear chain 'd to the ragged staff , This day I 'll wear aloft my burgonet , As on a mountain top the cedar shows That keeps his leaves in spite of any storm , Even to affright thee with the view thereof .
CLIFFORD : And from thy burgonet I 'll rend thy bear And tread it under foot with all contempt , Despite the bear-ward that protects the bear .
YOUNG CLIFFORD : And so to arms , victorious father , To quell the rebels and their complices .
RICHARD : Fie ! charity , for shame ! speak not in spite , For you shall sup with Jesu Christ to-night .
YOUNG CLIFFORD : Foul stigmatic , that 's more than thou canst tell .
RICHARD : If not in heaven , you 'll surely sup in hell . Alarums to the battle . Enter WARWICK
