YORK : From Ireland thus comes York to claim his right , And pluck the crown from feeble Henry 's head : Ring , bells , aloud ; burn , bonfires , clear and bright , To entertain great England 's lawful king . Ah ! sancta majestas , who would not buy thee dear ? Let them obey that know not how to rule ; This hand was made to handle naught but gold . I cannot give due action to my words , Except a sword or sceptre balance it : A sceptre shall it have , have I a soul , On which I 'll toss the flower-de-luce of France . Enter BUCKINGHAM Whom have we here ? Buckingham , to disturb me ? The king hath sent him , sure : I must dissemble .
BUCKINGHAM : York , if thou meanest well , I greet thee well .
YORK : Humphrey of Buckingham , I accept thy greeting . Art thou a messenger , or come of pleasure ?
BUCKINGHAM : A messenger from Henry , our dread liege , To know the reason of these arms in peace ; Or why thou , being a subject as I am , Against thy oath and true allegiance sworn , Should raise so great a power without his leave , Or dare to bring thy force so near the court .
YORK : Scarce can I speak , my choler is so great : O , I could hew up rocks and fight with flint , I am so angry at these abject terms ; And now , like Ajax Telamonius , On sheep or oxen could I spend my fury . I am far better born than is the king , More like a king , more kingly in my thoughts : But I must make fair weather yet a while , Till Henry be more weak and I more strong , -- Buckingham , I prithee , pardon me , That I have given no answer all this while ; My mind was troubled with deep melancholy . The cause why I have brought this army hither Is to remove proud Somerset from the king , Seditious to his grace and to the state .
BUCKINGHAM : That is too much presumption on thy part : But if thy arms be to no other end , The king hath yielded unto thy demand : The Duke of Somerset is in the Tower .
YORK : Upon thine honour , is he prisoner ?
BUCKINGHAM : Upon mine honour , he is prisoner .
YORK : Then , Buckingham , I do dismiss my powers . Soldiers , I thank you all ; disperse yourselves ; Meet me to-morrow in St. George 's field , You shall have pay and every thing you wish . And let my sovereign , virtuous Henry , Command my eldest son , nay , all my sons , As pledges of my fealty and love ; I 'll send them all as willing as I live : Lands , goods , horse , armour , any thing I have , Is his to use , so Somerset may die .
BUCKINGHAM : York , I commend this kind submission : We twain will go into his highness ' tent . Enter KING HENRY VI and Attendants
KING HENRY VI : Buckingham , doth York intend no harm to us , That thus he marcheth with thee arm in arm ?
YORK : In all submission and humility York doth present himself unto your highness .
KING HENRY VI : Then what intends these forces thou dost bring ?
YORK : To heave the traitor Somerset from hence , And fight against that monstrous rebel Cade , Who since I heard to be discomfited . Enter IDEN , with CADE 'S head
IDEN : If one so rude and of so mean condition May pass into the presence of a king , Lo , I present your grace a traitor 's head , The head of Cade , whom I in combat slew .
KING HENRY VI : The head of Cade ! Great God , how just art Thou ! O , let me view his visage , being dead , That living wrought me such exceeding trouble . Tell me , my friend , art thou the man that slew him ?
IDEN : I was , an 't like your majesty .
