SAY : What of that ?
CADE : Marry , thou oughtest not to let thy horse wear a cloak , when honester men than thou go in their hose and doublets .
DICK : And work in their shirt too ; as myself , for example , that am a butcher .
SAY : You men of Kent , --
DICK : What say you of Kent ?
SAY : Nothing but this ; ' tis ' bona terra , mala gens . ' 
CADE : Away with him , away with him ! he speaks Latin .
SAY : Hear me but speak , and bear me where you will . Kent , in the Commentaries Caesar writ , Is term 'd the civil 'st place of this isle : Sweet is the country , because full of riches ; The people liberal , valiant , active , wealthy ; Which makes me hope you are not void of pity . I sold not Maine , I lost not Normandy , Yet , to recover them , would lose my life . Justice with favour have I always done ; Prayers and tears have moved me , gifts could never . When have I aught exacted at your hands , But to maintain the king , the realm and you ? Large gifts have I bestow 'd on learned clerks , Because my book preferr 'd me to the king , And seeing ignorance is the curse of God , Knowledge the wing wherewith we fly to heaven , Unless you be possess 'd with devilish spirits , You cannot but forbear to murder me : This tongue hath parley 'd unto foreign kings For your behoof , --
CADE : Tut , when struck 'st thou one blow in the field ?
SAY : Great men have reaching hands : oft have I struck Those that I never saw and struck them dead .
BEVIS : O monstrous coward ! what , to come behind folks ?
SAY : These cheeks are pale for watching for your good .
CADE : Give him a box o ' the ear and that will make ' em red again .
SAY : Long sitting to determine poor men 's causes Hath made me full of sickness and diseases .
CADE : Ye shall have a hempen caudle , then , and the help of hatchet .
DICK : Why dost thou quiver , man ?
SAY : The palsy , and not fear , provokes me .
CADE : Nay , he nods at us , as who should say , I 'll be even with you : I 'll see if his head will stand steadier on a pole , or no . Take him away , and behead him .
SAY : Tell me wherein have I offended most ? Have I affected wealth or honour ? speak . Are my chests fill 'd up with extorted gold ? Is my apparel sumptuous to behold ? Whom have I injured , that ye seek my death ? These hands are free from guiltless bloodshedding , This breast from harbouring foul deceitful thoughts . O , let me live !
CADE : I feel remorse in myself with his words ; but I 'll bridle it : he shall die , an it be but for pleading so well for his life . Away with him ! he has a familiar under his tongue ; he speaks not o ' God 's name . Go , take him away , I say , and strike off his head presently ; and then break into his son-in-law 's house , Sir James Cromer , and strike off his head , and bring them both upon two poles hither .
ALL : It shall be done .
SAY : Ah , countrymen ! if when you make your prayers , God should be so obdurate as yourselves , How would it fare with your departed souls ? And therefore yet relent , and save my life .
