QUEEN MARGARET : Free lords , cold snow melts with the sun 's hot beams . Henry my lord is cold in great affairs , Too full of foolish pity , and Gloucester 's show Beguiles him as the mournful crocodile With sorrow snares relenting passengers , Or as the snake roll 'd in a flowering bank , With shining chequer 'd slough , doth sting a child That for the beauty thinks it excellent . Believe me , lords , were none more wise than I-- And yet herein I judge mine own wit good-- This Gloucester should be quickly rid the world , To rid us of the fear we have of him .
CARDINAL : That he should die is worthy policy ; But yet we want a colour for his death : ' Tis meet he be condemn 'd by course of law .
SUFFOLK : But , in my mind , that were no policy : The king will labour still to save his life , The commons haply rise , to save his life ; And yet we have but trivial argument , More than mistrust , that shows him worthy death .
YORK : So that , by this , you would not have him die .
SUFFOLK : Ah , York , no man alive so fain as I !
YORK : ' Tis York that hath more reason for his death . But , my lord cardinal , and you , my Lord of Suffolk , Say as you think , and speak it from your souls , Were 't not all one , an empty eagle were set To guard the chicken from a hungry kite , As place Duke Humphrey for the king 's protector ?
QUEEN MARGARET : So the poor chicken should be sure of death .
SUFFOLK : Madam , ' tis true ; and were 't not madness , then , To make the fox surveyor of the fold ? Who being accused a crafty murderer , His guilt should be but idly posted over , Because his purpose is not executed . No ; let him die , in that he is a fox , By nature proved an enemy to the flock , Before his chaps be stain 'd with crimson blood , As Humphrey , proved by reasons , to my liege . And do not stand on quillets how to slay him : Be it by gins , by snares , by subtlety , Sleeping or waking , ' tis no matter how , So he be dead ; for that is good deceit Which mates him first that first intends deceit .
QUEEN MARGARET : Thrice-noble Suffolk , ' tis resolutely spoke .
SUFFOLK : Not resolute , except so much were done ; For things are often spoke and seldom meant : But that my heart accordeth with my tongue , Seeing the deed is meritorious , And to preserve my sovereign from his foe , Say but the word , and I will be his priest .
CARDINAL : But I would have him dead , my Lord of Suffolk , Ere you can take due orders for a priest : Say you consent and censure well the deed , And I 'll provide his executioner , I tender so the safety of my liege .
SUFFOLK : Here is my hand , the deed is worthy doing .
QUEEN MARGARET : And so say I.
YORK : And I and now we three have spoke it , It skills not greatly who impugns our doom . Enter a Post
Post : Great lords , from Ireland am I come amain , To signify that rebels there are up And put the Englishmen unto the sword : Send succors , lords , and stop the rage betime , Before the wound do grow uncurable ; For , being green , there is great hope of help .
CARDINAL : A breach that craves a quick expedient stop ! What counsel give you in this weighty cause ?
YORK : That Somerset be sent as regent thither : ' Tis meet that lucky ruler be employ 'd ; Witness the fortune he hath had in France .
SOMERSET : If York , with all his far-fet policy , Had been the regent there instead of me , He never would have stay 'd in France so long .
