GLOUCESTER : Now fetch me a stool hither by and by . Now , sirrah , if you mean to save yourself from whipping , leap me over this stool and run away .
SIMPCOX : Alas , master , I am not able to stand alone : You go about to torture me in vain . Enter a Beadle with whips
GLOUCESTER : Well , sir , we must have you find your legs . Sirrah beadle , whip him till he leap over that same stool .
Beadle : I will , my lord . Come on , sirrah ; off with your doublet quickly .
SIMPCOX : Alas , master , what shall I do ? I am not able to stand . After the Beadle hath hit him once , he leaps over the stool and runs away ; and they follow and cry , ' A miracle ! '
KING HENRY VI : O God , seest Thou this , and bearest so long ?
QUEEN MARGARET : It made me laugh to see the villain run .
GLOUCESTER : Follow the knave ; and take this drab away .
Wife : Alas , sir , we did it for pure need .
GLOUCESTER : Let them be whipped through every market-town , till they come to Berwick , from whence they came .
CARDINAL : Duke Humphrey has done a miracle to-day .
SUFFOLK : True ; made the lame to leap and fly away .
GLOUCESTER : But you have done more miracles than I ; You made in a day , my lord , whole towns to fly . Enter BUCKINGHAM
KING HENRY VI : What tidings with our cousin Buckingham ?
BUCKINGHAM : Such as my heart doth tremble to unfold . A sort of naughty persons , lewdly bent , Under the countenance and confederacy Of Lady Eleanor , the protector 's wife , The ringleader and head of all this rout , Have practised dangerously against your state , Dealing with witches and with conjurers : Whom we have apprehended in the fact ; Raising up wicked spirits from under ground , Demanding of King Henry 's life and death , And other of your highness ' privy-council ; As more at large your grace shall understand .
CARDINAL : And so , my lord protector , by this means Your lady is forthcoming yet at London . This news , I think , hath turn 'd your weapon 's edge ; ' Tis like , my lord , you will not keep your hour .
GLOUCESTER : Ambitious churchman , leave to afflict my heart : Sorrow and grief have vanquish 'd all my powers ; And , vanquish 'd as I am , I yield to thee , Or to the meanest groom .
KING HENRY VI : O God , what mischiefs work the wicked ones , Heaping confusion on their own heads thereby !
QUEEN MARGARET : Gloucester , see here the tainture of thy nest . And look thyself be faultless , thou wert best .
GLOUCESTER : Madam , for myself , to heaven I do appeal , How I have loved my king and commonweal : And , for my wife , I know not how it stands ; Sorry I am to hear what I have heard : Noble she is , but if she have forgot Honour and virtue and conversed with such As , like to pitch , defile nobility , I banish her my bed and company And give her as a prey to law and shame , That hath dishonour 'd Gloucester 's honest name .
KING HENRY VI : Well , for this night we will repose us here : To-morrow toward London back again , To look into this business thoroughly And call these foul offenders to their answers And poise the cause in justice ' equal scales , Whose beam stands sure , whose rightful cause prevails . Enter YORK , SALISBURY , and WARWICK
YORK : Now , my good Lords of Salisbury and Warwick , Our simple supper ended , give me leave In this close walk to satisfy myself , In craving your opinion of my title , Which is infallible , to England 's crown .
SALISBURY : My lord , I long to hear it at full .
WARWICK : Sweet York , begin : and if thy claim be good , The Nevils are thy subjects to command .
