WARWICK : So God help Warwick , as he loves the land , And common profit of his country !
YORK : And so says York , for he hath greatest cause .
SALISBURY : Then let 's make haste away , and look unto the main .
WARWICK : Unto the main ! O father , Maine is lost ; That Maine which by main force Warwick did win , And would have kept so long as breath did last ! Main chance , father , you meant ; but I meant Maine , Which I will win from France , or else be slain ,
YORK : Anjou and Maine are given to the French ; Paris is lost ; the state of Normandy Stands on a tickle point , now they are gone : Suffolk concluded on the articles , The peers agreed , and Henry was well pleased To change two dukedoms for a duke 's fair daughter . I cannot blame them all : what is 't to them ? ' Tis thine they give away , and not their own . Pirates may make cheap pennyworths of their pillage And purchase friends and give to courtezans , Still revelling like lords till all be gone ; While as the silly owner of the goods Weeps over them and wrings his hapless hands And shakes his head and trembling stands aloof , While all is shared and all is borne away , Ready to starve and dare not touch his own : So York must sit and fret and bite his tongue , While his own lands are bargain 'd for and sold . Methinks the realms of England , France and Ireland Bear that proportion to my flesh and blood As did the fatal brand Althaea burn 'd Unto the prince 's heart of Calydon . Anjou and Maine both given unto the French ! Cold news for me , for I had hope of France , Even as I have of fertile England 's soil . A day will come when York shall claim his own ; And therefore I will take the Nevils ' parts And make a show of love to proud Duke Humphrey , And , when I spy advantage , claim the crown , For that 's the golden mark I seek to hit : Nor shall proud Lancaster usurp my right , Nor hold the sceptre in his childish fist , Nor wear the diadem upon his head , Whose church-like humours fits not for a crown . Then , York , be still awhile , till time do serve : Watch thou and wake when others be asleep , To pry into the secrets of the state ; Till Henry , surfeiting in joys of love , With his new bride and England 's dear-bought queen , And Humphrey with the peers be fall 'n at jars : Then will I raise aloft the milk-white rose , With whose sweet smell the air shall be perfumed ; And in my standard bear the arms of York To grapple with the house of Lancaster ; And , force perforce , I 'll make him yield the crown , Whose bookish rule hath pull 'd fair England down . Exit Enter GLOUCESTER and his DUCHESS
DUCHESS : Why droops my lord , like over-ripen 'd corn , Hanging the head at Ceres ' plenteous load ? Why doth the great Duke Humphrey knit his brows , As frowning at the favours of the world ? Why are thine eyes fixed to the sullen earth , Gazing on that which seems to dim thy sight ? What seest thou there ? King Henry 's diadem , Enchased with all the honours of the world ? If so , gaze on , and grovel on thy face , Until thy head be circled with the same . Put forth thy hand , reach at the glorious gold . What , is 't too short ? I 'll lengthen it with mine : And , having both together heaved it up , We 'll both together lift our heads to heaven , And never more abase our sight so low As to vouchsafe one glance unto the ground .
