SUFFOLK : O that I were a god , to shoot forth thunder Upon these paltry , servile , abject drudges ! Small things make base men proud : this villain here , Being captain of a pinnace , threatens more Than Bargulus the strong Illyrian pirate . Drones suck not eagles ' blood but rob beehives : It is impossible that I should die By such a lowly vassal as thyself . Thy words move rage and not remorse in me : I go of message from the queen to France ; I charge thee waft me safely cross the Channel .
Captain : Walter , --
WHITMORE : Come , Suffolk , I must waft thee to thy death .
SUFFOLK : Gelidus timor occupat artus it is thee I fear .
WHITMORE : Thou shalt have cause to fear before I leave thee . What , are ye daunted now ? now will ye stoop ?
First Gentleman : My gracious lord , entreat him , speak him fair .
SUFFOLK : Suffolk 's imperial tongue is stern and rough , Used to command , untaught to plead for favour . Far be it we should honour such as these With humble suit : no , rather let my head Stoop to the block than these knees bow to any Save to the God of heaven and to my king ; And sooner dance upon a bloody pole Than stand uncover 'd to the vulgar groom . True nobility is exempt from fear : More can I bear than you dare execute .
Captain : Hale him away , and let him talk no more .
SUFFOLK : Come , soldiers , show what cruelty ye can , That this my death may never be forgot ! Great men oft die by vile bezonians : A Roman sworder and banditto slave Murder 'd sweet Tully ; Brutus ' bastard hand Stabb 'd Julius Caesar ; savage islanders Pompey the Great ; and Suffolk dies by pirates .
Captain : And as for these whose ransom we have set , It is our pleasure one of them depart ; Therefore come you with us and let him go . Re-enter WHITMORE with SUFFOLK 's body
WHITMORE : There let his head and lifeless body lie , Until the queen his mistress bury it . Exit
First Gentleman : O barbarous and bloody spectacle ! His body will I bear unto the king : If he revenge it not , yet will his friends ; So will the queen , that living held him dear . Exit with the body Enter GEORGE BEVIS and JOHN HOLLAND
BEVIS : Come , and get thee a sword , though made of a lath ; they have been up these two days .
HOLLAND : They have the more need to sleep now , then .
BEVIS : I tell thee , Jack Cade the clothier means to dress the commonwealth , and turn it , and set a new nap upon it .
HOLLAND : So he had need , for ' tis threadbare . Well , I say it was never merry world in England since gentlemen came up .
BEVIS : O miserable age ! virtue is not regarded in handicrafts-men .
HOLLAND : The nobility think scorn to go in leather aprons .
BEVIS : Nay , more , the king 's council are no good workmen .
HOLLAND : True ; and yet it is said , labour in thy vocation ; which is as much to say as , let the magistrates be labouring men ; and therefore should we be magistrates .
BEVIS : Thou hast hit it ; for there 's no better sign of a brave mind than a hard hand .
HOLLAND : I see them ! I see them ! there 's Best 's son , the tanner of Wingham , --
BEVIS : He shall have the skin of our enemies , to make dog 's-leather of .
HOLLAND : And Dick the Butcher , --
BEVIS : Then is sin struck down like an ox , and iniquity 's throat cut like a calf .
HOLLAND : And Smith the weaver , --
BEVIS : Argo , their thread of life is spun .
HOLLAND : Come , come , let 's fall in with them . Drum . Enter CADE , DICK the Butcher , SMITH the Weaver , and a Sawyer , with infinite numbers
