DICK : My lord , when shall we go to Cheapside and take up commodities upon our bills ?
CADE : Marry , presently .
ALL : O , brave ! Re-enter one with the heads
CADE : But is not this braver ? Let them kiss one another , for they loved well when they were alive . Now part them again , lest they consult about the giving up of some more towns in France . Soldiers , defer the spoil of the city until night : for with these borne before us , instead of maces , will we ride through the streets , and at every corner have them kiss . Away ! Alarum and retreat . Enter CADE and all his rabblement
CADE : Up Fish Street ! down Saint Magnus ' Corner ! Kill and knock down ! throw them into Thames ! Sound a parley What noise is this I hear ? Dare any be so bold to sound retreat or parley , when I command them kill ? Enter BUCKINGHAM and CLIFFORD , attended
BUCKINGHAM : Ay , here they be that dare and will disturb thee : Know , Cade , we come ambassadors from the king Unto the commons whom thou hast misled ; And here pronounce free pardon to them all That will forsake thee and go home in peace .
CLIFFORD : What say ye , countrymen ? will ye relent , And yield to mercy whilst ' tis offer 'd you ; Or let a rebel lead you to your deaths ? Who loves the king and will embrace his pardon , Fling up his cap , and say ' God save his majesty ! ' Who hateth him and honours not his father , Henry the Fifth , that made all France to quake , Shake he his weapon at us and pass by .
ALL : God save the king ! God save the king !
CADE : What , Buckingham and Clifford , are ye so brave ? And you , base peasants , do ye believe him ? will you needs be hanged with your pardons about your necks ? Hath my sword therefore broke through London gates , that you should leave me at the White Hart in Southwark ? I thought ye would never have given out these arms till you had recovered your ancient freedom : but you are all recreants and dastards , and delight to live in slavery to the nobility . Let them break your backs with burthens , take your houses over your heads , ravish your wives and daughters before your faces : for me , I will make shift for one ; and so , God 's curse light upon you all !
ALL : We 'll follow Cade , we 'll follow Cade !
CLIFFORD : Is Cade the son of Henry the Fifth , That thus you do exclaim you 'll go with him ? Will he conduct you through the heart of France , And make the meanest of you earls and dukes ? Alas , he hath no home , no place to fly to ; Nor knows he how to live but by the spoil , Unless by robbing of your friends and us . Were 't not a shame , that whilst you live at jar , The fearful French , whom you late vanquished , Should make a start o 'er seas and vanquish you ? Methinks already in this civil broil I see them lording it in London streets , Crying ' Villiago ! ' unto all they meet . Better ten thousand base-born Cades miscarry Than you should stoop unto a Frenchman 's mercy . To France , to France , and get what you have lost ; Spare England , for it is your native coast ; Henry hath money , you are strong and manly ; God on our side , doubt not of victory .
ALL : A Clifford ! a Clifford ! we 'll follow the king and Clifford .
