First Gentleman : What is my ransom , master ? let me know .
Master : A thousand crowns , or else lay down your head . Master 's-Mate And so much shall you give , or off goes yours .
Captain : What , think you much to pay two thousand crowns , And bear the name and port of gentlemen ? Cut both the villains ' throats ; for die you shall : The lives of those which we have lost in fight Be counterpoised with such a petty sum !
First Gentleman : I 'll give it , sir ; and therefore spare my life .
Second Gentleman : And so will I and write home for it straight .
WHITMORE : I lost mine eye in laying the prize aboard , And therefore to revenge it , shalt thou die ; To SUFFOLK And so should these , if I might have my will .
Captain : Be not so rash ; take ransom , let him live .
SUFFOLK : Look on my George ; I am a gentleman : Rate me at what thou wilt , thou shalt be paid .
WHITMORE : And so am I ; my name is Walter Whitmore . How now ! why start 'st thou ? what , doth death affright ?
SUFFOLK : Thy name affrights me , in whose sound is death . A cunning man did calculate my birth And told me that by water I should die : Yet let not this make thee be bloody-minded ; Thy name is Gaultier , being rightly sounded .
WHITMORE : Gaultier or Walter , which it is , I care not : Never yet did base dishonour blur our name , But with our sword we wiped away the blot ; Therefore , when merchant-like I sell revenge , Broke be my sword , my arms torn and defaced , And I proclaim 'd a coward through the world !
SUFFOLK : Stay , Whitmore ; for thy prisoner is a prince , The Duke of Suffolk , William de la Pole .
WHITMORE : The Duke of Suffolk muffled up in rags !
SUFFOLK : Ay , but these rags are no part of the duke : Jove sometimes went disguised , and why not I ?
Captain : But Jove was never slain , as thou shalt be .
SUFFOLK : Obscure and lowly swain , King Henry 's blood , The honourable blood of Lancaster , Must not be shed by such a jaded groom . Hast thou not kiss 'd thy hand and held my stirrup ? Bare-headed plodded by my foot-cloth mule And thought thee happy when I shook my head ? How often hast thou waited at my cup , Fed from my trencher , kneel 'd down at the board . When I have feasted with Queen Margaret ? Remember it and let it make thee crest-fall 'n , Ay , and allay this thy abortive pride ; How in our voiding lobby hast thou stood And duly waited for my coming forth ? This hand of mine hath writ in thy behalf , And therefore shall it charm thy riotous tongue .
WHITMORE : Speak , captain , shall I stab the forlorn swain ?
Captain : First let my words stab him , as he hath me .
SUFFOLK : Base slave , thy words are blunt and so art thou .
Captain : Convey him hence and on our longboat 's side Strike off his head .
SUFFOLK : Thou darest not , for thy own .
Captain : Yes , Pole .
SUFFOLK : Pole !
