SUFFOLK : If I depart from thee , I cannot live ; And in thy sight to die , what were it else But like a pleasant slumber in thy lap ? Here could I breathe my soul into the air , As mild and gentle as the cradle-babe Dying with mother 's dug between its lips : Where , from thy sight , I should be raging mad , And cry out for thee to close up mine eyes , To have thee with thy lips to stop my mouth ; So shouldst thou either turn my flying soul , Or I should breathe it so into thy body , And then it lived in sweet Elysium . To die by thee were but to die in jest ; From thee to die were torture more than death : O , let me stay , befall what may befall !
QUEEN MARGARET : Away ! though parting be a fretful corrosive , It is applied to a deathful wound . To France , sweet Suffolk : let me hear from thee ; For wheresoe 'er thou art in this world 's globe , I 'll have an Iris that shall find thee out .
SUFFOLK : I go .
QUEEN MARGARET : And take my heart with thee .
SUFFOLK : A jewel , lock 'd into the wofull 'st cask That ever did contain a thing of worth . Even as a splitted bark , so sunder we This way fall I to death .
QUEEN MARGARET : This way for me . Enter the KING , SALISBURY , WARWICK , to the CARDINAL in bed
KING HENRY VI : How fares my lord ? speak , Beaufort , to thy sovereign .
CARDINAL : If thou be 'st death , I 'll give thee England 's treasure , Enough to purchase such another island , So thou wilt let me live , and feel no pain .
KING HENRY VI : Ah , what a sign it is of evil life , Where death 's approach is seen so terrible !
WARWICK : Beaufort , it is thy sovereign speaks to thee .
CARDINAL : Bring me unto my trial when you will . Died he not in his bed ? where should he die ? Can I make men live , whether they will or no ? O , torture me no more ! I will confess . Alive again ? then show me where he is : I 'll give a thousand pound to look upon him . He hath no eyes , the dust hath blinded them . Comb down his hair ; look , look ! it stands upright , Like lime-twigs set to catch my winged soul . Give me some drink ; and bid the apothecary Bring the strong poison that I bought of him .
KING HENRY VI : O thou eternal Mover of the heavens . Look with a gentle eye upon this wretch ! O , beat away the busy meddling fiend That lays strong siege unto this wretch 's soul . And from his bosom purge this black despair !
WARWICK : See , how the pangs of death do make him grin !
SALISBURY : Disturb him not ; let him pass peaceably .
KING HENRY VI : Peace to his soul , if God 's good pleasure be ! Lord cardinal , if thou think 'st on heaven 's bliss , Hold up thy hand , make signal of thy hope . He dies , and makes no sign . O God , forgive him !
WARWICK : So bad a death argues a monstrous life .
KING HENRY VI : Forbear to judge , for we are sinners all . Close up his eyes and draw the curtain close ; And let us all to meditation . Alarum . Fight at sea . Ordnance goes off . Enter a Captain , a Master , a Master 's-mate , WALTER WHITMORE , and others ; with them SUFFOLK , and others , prisoners
