SUFFOLK : As by your high imperial majesty I had in charge at my depart for France , As procurator to your excellence , To marry Princess Margaret for your grace , So , in the famous ancient city , Tours , In presence of the Kings of France and Sicil , The Dukes of Orleans , Calaber , Bretagne and Alencon , Seven earls , twelve barons and twenty reverend bishops , I have perform 'd my task and was espoused : And humbly now upon my bended knee , In sight of England and her lordly peers , Deliver up my title in the queen To your most gracious hands , that are the substance Of that great shadow I did represent ; The happiest gift that ever marquess gave , The fairest queen that ever king received .
KING HENRY VI : Suffolk , arise . Welcome , Queen Margaret : I can express no kinder sign of love Than this kind kiss . O Lord , that lends me life , Lend me a heart replete with thankfulness ! For thou hast given me in this beauteous face A world of earthly blessings to my soul , If sympathy of love unite our thoughts .
QUEEN MARGARET : Great King of England and my gracious lord , The mutual conference that my mind hath had , By day , by night , waking and in my dreams , In courtly company or at my beads , With you , mine alder-liefest sovereign , Makes me the bolder to salute my king With ruder terms , such as my wit affords And over-joy of heart doth minister .
KING HENRY VI : Her sight did ravish ; but her grace in speech , Her words y-clad with wisdom 's majesty , Makes me from wondering fall to weeping joys ; Such is the fulness of my heart 's content . Lords , with one cheerful voice welcome my love .
ALL : Long live Queen Margaret , England 's happiness !
QUEEN MARGARET : We thank you all . Flourish
SUFFOLK : My lord protector , so it please your grace , Here are the articles of contracted peace Between our sovereign and the French king Charles , For eighteen months concluded by consent .
GLOUCESTER : ' Imprimis , it is agreed between the French king Charles , and William de la Pole , Marquess of Suffolk , ambassador for Henry King of England , that the said Henry shall espouse the Lady Margaret , daughter unto Reignier King of Naples , Sicilia and Jerusalem , and crown her Queen of England ere the thirtieth of May next ensuing . Item , that the duchy of Anjou and the county of Maine shall be released and delivered to the king her father ' -- Lets the paper fall
KING HENRY VI : Uncle , how now !
GLOUCESTER : Pardon me , gracious lord ; Some sudden qualm hath struck me at the heart And dimm 'd mine eyes , that I can read no further .
KING HENRY VI : Uncle of Winchester , I pray , read on .
CARDINAL : ' Item , It is further agreed between them , that the duchies of Anjou and Maine shall be released and delivered over to the king her father , and she sent over of the King of England 's own proper cost and charges , without having any dowry . ' 
KING HENRY VI : They please us well . Lord marquess , kneel down : We here create thee the first duke of Suffolk , And gird thee with the sword . Cousin of York , We here discharge your grace from being regent I ' the parts of France , till term of eighteen months Be full expired . Thanks , uncle Winchester , Gloucester , York , Buckingham , Somerset , Salisbury , and Warwick ; We thank you all for the great favour done , In entertainment to my princely queen . Come , let us in , and with all speed provide To see her coronation be perform 'd .
