YORK : The deadly-handed Clifford slew my steed , But match to match I have encounter 'd him And made a prey for carrion kites and crows Even of the bonny beast he loved so well . Enter CLIFFORD
WARWICK : Of one or both of us the time is come .
YORK : Hold , Warwick , seek thee out some other chase , For I myself must hunt this deer to death .
WARWICK : Then , nobly , York ; ' tis for a crown thou fight 'st . As I intend , Clifford , to thrive to-day , It grieves my soul to leave thee unassail 'd . Exit
CLIFFORD : What seest thou in me , York ? why dost thou pause ?
YORK : With thy brave bearing should I be in love , But that thou art so fast mine enemy .
CLIFFORD : Nor should thy prowess want praise and esteem , But that ' tis shown ignobly and in treason .
YORK : So let it help me now against thy sword As I in justice and true right express it .
CLIFFORD : My soul and body on the action both !
YORK : A dreadful lay ! Address thee instantly . They fight , and CLIFFORD falls
CLIFFORD : La fin couronne les oeuvres . Dies
YORK : Thus war hath given thee peace , for thou art still . Peace with his soul , heaven , if it be thy will ! Exit Enter YOUNG CLIFFORD
YOUNG CLIFFORD : Shame and confusion ! all is on the rout ; Fear frames disorder , and disorder wounds Where it should guard . O war , thou son of hell , Whom angry heavens do make their minister Throw in the frozen bosoms of our part Hot coals of vengeance ! Let no soldier fly . He that is truly dedicate to war Hath no self-love , nor he that loves himself Hath not essentially but by circumstance The name of valour . Seeing his dead father O , let the vile world end , And the premised flames of the last day Knit earth and heaven together ! Now let the general trumpet blow his blast , Particularities and petty sounds To cease ! Wast thou ordain 'd , dear father , To lose thy youth in peace , and to achieve The silver livery of advised age , And , in thy reverence and thy chair-days , thus To die in ruffian battle ? Even at this sight My heart is turn 'd to stone : and while ' tis mine , It shall be stony . York not our old men spares ; No more will I their babes : tears virginal Shall be to me even as the dew to fire , And beauty that the tyrant oft reclaims Shall to my flaming wrath be oil and flax . Henceforth I will not have to do with pity : Meet I an infant of the house of York , Into as many gobbets will I cut it As wild Medea young Absyrtus did : In cruelty will I seek out my fame . Come , thou new ruin of old Clifford 's house : As did AEneas old Anchises bear , So bear I thee upon my manly shoulders ; But then AEneas bare a living load , Nothing so heavy as these woes of mine . Exit , bearing off his father Enter RICHARD and SOMERSET to fight . SOMERSET is killed
RICHARD : So , lie thou there ; For underneath an alehouse ' paltry sign , The Castle in Saint Alban 's , Somerset Hath made the wizard famous in his death . Sword , hold thy temper ; heart , be wrathful still : Priests pray for enemies , but princes kill . Exit Fight : excursions . Enter KING HENRY VI , QUEEN MARGARET , and others
QUEEN MARGARET : Away , my lord ! you are slow ; for shame , away !
KING HENRY VI : Can we outrun the heavens ? good Margaret , stay .
