Servant : What , think you then the king shall be deposed ?
Gardener : Depress 'd he is already , and deposed ' Tis doubt he will be : letters came last night To a dear friend of the good Duke of York 's , That tell black tidings .
QUEEN : O , I am press 'd to death through want of speaking ! Coming forward Thou , old Adam 's likeness , set to dress this garden , How dares thy harsh rude tongue sound this unpleasing news ? What Eve , what serpent , hath suggested thee To make a second fall of cursed man ? Why dost thou say King Richard is deposed ? Darest thou , thou little better thing than earth , Divine his downfall ? Say , where , when , and how , Camest thou by this ill tidings ? speak , thou wretch .
Gardener : Pardon me , madam : little joy have I To breathe this news ; yet what I say is true . King Richard , he is in the mighty hold Of Bolingbroke : their fortunes both are weigh 'd : In your lord 's scale is nothing but himself , And some few vanities that make him light ; But in the balance of great Bolingbroke , Besides himself , are all the English peers , And with that odds he weighs King Richard down . Post you to London , and you will find it so ; I speak no more than every one doth know .
QUEEN : Nimble mischance , that art so light of foot , Doth not thy embassage belong to me , And am I last that knows it ? O , thou think 'st To serve me last , that I may longest keep Thy sorrow in my breast . Come , ladies , go , To meet at London London 's king in woe . What , was I born to this , that my sad look Should grace the triumph of great Bolingbroke ? Gardener , for telling me these news of woe , Pray God the plants thou graft 'st may never grow .
GARDENER : Poor queen ! so that thy state might be no worse , I would my skill were subject to thy curse . Here did she fall a tear ; here in this place I 'll set a bank of rue , sour herb of grace : Rue , even for ruth , here shortly shall be seen , In the remembrance of a weeping queen . Enter , as to the Parliament , HENRY BOLINGBROKE , DUKE OF AUMERLE , NORTHUMBERLAND , HENRY PERCY , LORD FITZWATER , DUKE OF SURREY , the BISHOP OF CARLISLE , the Abbot Of Westminster , and another Lord , Herald , Officers , and BAGOT
HENRY BOLINGBROKE : Call forth Bagot . Now , Bagot , freely speak thy mind ; What thou dost know of noble Gloucester 's death , Who wrought it with the king , and who perform 'd The bloody office of his timeless end .
BAGOT : Then set before my face the Lord Aumerle .
HENRY BOLINGBROKE : Cousin , stand forth , and look upon that man .
BAGOT : My Lord Aumerle , I know your daring tongue Scorns to unsay what once it hath deliver 'd . In that dead time when Gloucester 's death was plotted , I heard you say , ' Is not my arm of length , That reacheth from the restful English court As far as Calais , to mine uncle 's head ? ' Amongst much other talk , that very time , I heard you say that you had rather refuse The offer of an hundred thousand crowns Than Bolingbroke 's return to England ; Adding withal how blest this land would be In this your cousin 's death .
