HENRY BOLINGBROKE : Bagot , forbear ; thou shalt not take it up .
DUKE OF AUMERLE : Excepting one , I would he were the best In all this presence that hath moved me so .
LORD FITZWATER : If that thy valour stand on sympathy , There is my gage , Aumerle , in gage to thine : By that fair sun which shows me where thou stand 'st , I heard thee say , and vauntingly thou spakest it That thou wert cause of noble Gloucester 's death . If thou deny 'st it twenty times , thou liest ; And I will turn thy falsehood to thy heart , Where it was forged , with my rapier 's point .
DUKE OF AUMERLE : Thou darest not , coward , live to see that day .
LORD FITZWATER : Now by my soul , I would it were this hour .
DUKE OF AUMERLE : Fitzwater , thou art damn 'd to hell for this .
HENRY PERCY : Aumerle , thou liest ; his honour is as true In this appeal as thou art all unjust ; And that thou art so , there I throw my gage , To prove it on thee to the extremest point Of mortal breathing : seize it , if thou darest .
DUKE OF AUMERLE : An if I do not , may my hands rot off And never brandish more revengeful steel Over the glittering helmet of my foe !
Lord : I task the earth to the like , forsworn Aumerle ; And spur thee on with full as many lies As may be holloa 'd in thy treacherous ear From sun to sun : there is my honour 's pawn ; Engage it to the trial , if thou darest .
DUKE OF AUMERLE : Who sets me else ? by heaven , I 'll throw at all : I have a thousand spirits in one breast , To answer twenty thousand such as you .
DUKE OF SURREY : My Lord Fitzwater , I do remember well The very time Aumerle and you did talk .
LORD FITZWATER : ' Tis very true : you were in presence then ; And you can witness with me this is true .
DUKE OF SURREY : As false , by heaven , as heaven itself is true .
LORD FITZWATER : Surrey , thou liest .
DUKE OF SURREY : Dishonourable boy ! That lie shall lie so heavy on my sword , That it shall render vengeance and revenge Till thou the lie-giver and that lie do lie In earth as quiet as thy father 's skull : In proof whereof , there is my honour 's pawn ; Engage it to the trial , if thou darest .
LORD FITZWATER : How fondly dost thou spur a forward horse ! If I dare eat , or drink , or breathe , or live , I dare meet Surrey in a wilderness , And spit upon him , whilst I say he lies , And lies , and lies : there is my bond of faith , To tie thee to my strong correction . As I intend to thrive in this new world , Aumerle is guilty of my true appeal : Besides , I heard the banish 'd Norfolk say That thou , Aumerle , didst send two of thy men To execute the noble duke at Calais .
DUKE OF AUMERLE : Some honest Christian trust me with a gage That Norfolk lies : here do I throw down this , If he may be repeal 'd , to try his honour .
HENRY BOLINGBROKE : These differences shall all rest under gage Till Norfolk be repeal 'd : repeal 'd he shall be , And , though mine enemy , restored again To all his lands and signories : when he 's return 'd , Against Aumerle we will enforce his trial .
BISHOP OF CARLISLE : That honourable day shall ne 'er be seen . Many a time hath banish 'd Norfolk fought For Jesu Christ in glorious Christian field , Streaming the ensign of the Christian cross Against black pagans , Turks , and Saracens : And toil 'd with works of war , retired himself To Italy ; and there at Venice gave His body to that pleasant country 's earth , And his pure soul unto his captain Christ , Under whose colours he had fought so long .
