HENRY BOLINGBROKE : Harry of Hereford , Lancaster and Derby Am I ; who ready here do stand in arms , To prove , by God 's grace and my body 's valour , In lists , on Thomas Mowbray , Duke of Norfolk , That he is a traitor , foul and dangerous , To God of heaven , King Richard and to me ; And as I truly fight , defend me heaven !
Lord Marshal : On pain of death , no person be so bold Or daring-hardy as to touch the lists , Except the marshal and such officers Appointed to direct these fair designs .
HENRY BOLINGBROKE : Lord marshal , let me kiss my sovereign 's hand , And bow my knee before his majesty : For Mowbray and myself are like two men That vow a long and weary pilgrimage ; Then let us take a ceremonious leave And loving farewell of our several friends .
Lord Marshal : The appellant in all duty greets your highness , And craves to kiss your hand and take his leave .
KING RICHARD II : We will descend and fold him in our arms . Cousin of Hereford , as thy cause is right , So be thy fortune in this royal fight ! Farewell , my blood ; which if to-day thou shed , Lament we may , but not revenge thee dead .
HENRY BOLINGBROKE : O let no noble eye profane a tear For me , if I be gored with Mowbray 's spear : As confident as is the falcon 's flight Against a bird , do I with Mowbray fight . My loving lord , I take my leave of you ; Of you , my noble cousin , Lord Aumerle ; Not sick , although I have to do with death , But lusty , young , and cheerly drawing breath . Lo , as at English feasts , so I regreet The daintiest last , to make the end most sweet : O thou , the earthly author of my blood , Whose youthful spirit , in me regenerate , Doth with a twofold vigour lift me up To reach at victory above my head , Add proof unto mine armour with thy prayers ; And with thy blessings steel my lance 's point , That it may enter Mowbray 's waxen coat , And furbish new the name of John a Gaunt , Even in the lusty havior of his son .
JOHN OF GAUNT : God in thy good cause make thee prosperous ! Be swift like lightning in the execution ; And let thy blows , doubly redoubled , Fall like amazing thunder on the casque Of thy adverse pernicious enemy : Rouse up thy youthful blood , be valiant and live .
HENRY BOLINGBROKE : Mine innocency and Saint George to thrive !
THOMAS MOWBRAY : However God or fortune cast my lot , There lives or dies , true to King Richard 's throne , A loyal , just and upright gentleman : Never did captive with a freer heart Cast off his chains of bondage and embrace His golden uncontroll 'd enfranchisement , More than my dancing soul doth celebrate This feast of battle with mine adversary . Most mighty liege , and my companion peers , Take from my mouth the wish of happy years : As gentle and as jocund as to jest Go I to fight : truth hath a quiet breast .
KING RICHARD II : Farewell , my lord : securely I espy Virtue with valour couched in thine eye . Order the trial , marshal , and begin .
Lord Marshal : Harry of Hereford , Lancaster and Derby , Receive thy lance ; and God defend the right !
HENRY BOLINGBROKE : Strong as a tower in hope , I cry amen .
Lord Marshal : Go bear this lance to Thomas , Duke of Norfolk .
First Herald : Harry of Hereford , Lancaster and Derby , Stands here for God , his sovereign and himself , On pain to be found false and recreant , To prove the Duke of Norfolk , Thomas Mowbray , A traitor to his God , his king and him ; And dares him to set forward to the fight .
