DUKE OF YORK : To do that office of thine own good will Which tired majesty did make thee offer , The resignation of thy state and crown To Henry Bolingbroke .
KING RICHARD II : Give me the crown . Here , cousin , seize the crown ; Here cousin : On this side my hand , and on that side yours . Now is this golden crown like a deep well That owes two buckets , filling one another , The emptier ever dancing in the air , The other down , unseen and full of water : That bucket down and full of tears am I , Drinking my griefs , whilst you mount up on high .
HENRY BOLINGBROKE : I thought you had been willing to resign .
KING RICHARD II : My crown I am ; but still my griefs are mine : You may my glories and my state depose , But not my griefs ; still am I king of those .
HENRY BOLINGBROKE : Part of your cares you give me with your crown .
KING RICHARD II : Your cares set up do not pluck my cares down . My care is loss of care , by old care done ; Your care is gain of care , by new care won : The cares I give I have , though given away ; They tend the crown , yet still with me they stay .
HENRY BOLINGBROKE : Are you contented to resign the crown ?
KING RICHARD II : Ay , no ; no , ay ; for I must nothing be ; Therefore no no , for I resign to thee . Now mark me , how I will undo myself ; I give this heavy weight from off my head And this unwieldy sceptre from my hand , The pride of kingly sway from out my heart ; With mine own tears I wash away my balm , With mine own hands I give away my crown , With mine own tongue deny my sacred state , With mine own breath release all duty 's rites : All pomp and majesty I do forswear ; My manors , rents , revenues I forego ; My acts , decrees , and statutes I deny : God pardon all oaths that are broke to me ! God keep all vows unbroke that swear to thee ! Make me , that nothing have , with nothing grieved , And thou with all pleased , that hast all achieved ! Long mayst thou live in Richard 's seat to sit , And soon lie Richard in an earthly pit ! God save King Harry , unking 'd Richard says , And send him many years of sunshine days ! What more remains ?
NORTHUMBERLAND : No more , but that you read These accusations and these grievous crimes Committed by your person and your followers Against the state and profit of this land ; That , by confessing them , the souls of men May deem that you are worthily deposed .
KING RICHARD II : Must I do so ? and must I ravel out My weaved-up folly ? Gentle Northumberland , If thy offences were upon record , Would it not shame thee in so fair a troop To read a lecture of them ? If thou wouldst , There shouldst thou find one heinous article , Containing the deposing of a king And cracking the strong warrant of an oath , Mark 'd with a blot , damn 'd in the book of heaven : Nay , all of you that stand and look upon , Whilst that my wretchedness doth bait myself , Though some of you with Pilate wash your hands Showing an outward pity ; yet you Pilates Have here deliver 'd me to my sour cross , And water cannot wash away your sin .
NORTHUMBERLAND : My lord , dispatch ; read o 'er these articles .
KING RICHARD II : Mine eyes are full of tears , I cannot see : And yet salt water blinds them not so much But they can see a sort of traitors here . Nay , if I turn mine eyes upon myself , I find myself a traitor with the rest ; For I have given here my soul 's consent To undeck the pompous body of a king ; Made glory base and sovereignty a slave , Proud majesty a subject , state a peasant .
