THOMAS MOWBRAY : I take it up ; and by that sword I swear Which gently laid my knighthood on my shoulder , I 'll answer thee in any fair degree , Or chivalrous design of knightly trial : And when I mount , alive may I not light , If I be traitor or unjustly fight !
KING RICHARD II : What doth our cousin lay to Mowbray 's charge ? It must be great that can inherit us So much as of a thought of ill in him .
HENRY BOLINGBROKE : Look , what I speak , my life shall prove it true ; That Mowbray hath received eight thousand nobles In name of lendings for your highness ' soldiers , The which he hath detain 'd for lewd employments , Like a false traitor and injurious villain . Besides I say and will in battle prove , Or here or elsewhere to the furthest verge That ever was survey 'd by English eye , That all the treasons for these eighteen years Complotted and contrived in this land Fetch from false Mowbray their first head and spring . Further I say and further will maintain Upon his bad life to make all this good , That he did plot the Duke of Gloucester 's death , Suggest his soon-believing adversaries , And consequently , like a traitor coward , Sluiced out his innocent soul through streams of blood : Which blood , like sacrificing Abel 's , cries , Even from the tongueless caverns of the earth , To me for justice and rough chastisement ; And , by the glorious worth of my descent , This arm shall do it , or this life be spent .
KING RICHARD II : How high a pitch his resolution soars ! Thomas of Norfolk , what say 'st thou to this ?
THOMAS MOWBRAY : O , let my sovereign turn away his face And bid his ears a little while be deaf , Till I have told this slander of his blood , How God and good men hate so foul a liar .
KING RICHARD II : Mowbray , impartial are our eyes and ears : Were he my brother , nay , my kingdom 's heir , As he is but my father 's brother 's son , Now , by my sceptre 's awe , I make a vow , Such neighbour nearness to our sacred blood Should nothing privilege him , nor partialize The unstooping firmness of my upright soul : He is our subject , Mowbray ; so art thou : Free speech and fearless I to thee allow .
THOMAS MOWBRAY : Then , Bolingbroke , as low as to thy heart , Through the false passage of thy throat , thou liest . Three parts of that receipt I had for Calais Disbursed I duly to his highness ' soldiers ; The other part reserved I by consent , For that my sovereign liege was in my debt Upon remainder of a dear account , Since last I went to France to fetch his queen : Now swallow down that lie . For Gloucester 's death , I slew him not ; but to my own disgrace Neglected my sworn duty in that case . For you , my noble Lord of Lancaster , The honourable father to my foe Once did I lay an ambush for your life , A trespass that doth vex my grieved soul But ere I last received the sacrament I did confess it , and exactly begg 'd Your grace 's pardon , and I hope I had it . This is my fault : as for the rest appeall 'd , It issues from the rancour of a villain , A recreant and most degenerate traitor Which in myself I boldly will defend ; And interchangeably hurl down my gage Upon this overweening traitor 's foot , To prove myself a loyal gentleman Even in the best blood chamber 'd in his bosom . In haste whereof , most heartily I pray Your highness to assign our trial day .
