HENRY BOLINGBROKE : Noble lords , Go to the rude ribs of that ancient castle ; Through brazen trumpet send the breath of parley Into his ruin 'd ears , and thus deliver : Henry Bolingbroke On both his knees doth kiss King Richard 's hand And sends allegiance and true faith of heart To his most royal person , hither come Even at his feet to lay my arms and power , Provided that my banishment repeal 'd And lands restored again be freely granted : If not , I 'll use the advantage of my power And lay the summer 's dust with showers of blood Rain 'd from the wounds of slaughter 'd Englishmen : The which , how far off from the mind of Bolingbroke It is , such crimson tempest should bedrench The fresh green lap of fair King Richard 's land , My stooping duty tenderly shall show . Go , signify as much , while here we march Upon the grassy carpet of this plain . Let 's march without the noise of threatening drum , That from this castle 's tatter 'd battlements Our fair appointments may be well perused . Methinks King Richard and myself should meet With no less terror than the elements Of fire and water , when their thundering shock At meeting tears the cloudy cheeks of heaven . Be he the fire , I 'll be the yielding water : The rage be his , whilst on the earth I rain My waters ; on the earth , and not on him . March on , and mark King Richard how he looks . Parle without , and answer within . Then a flourish . Enter on the walls , KING RICHARD II , the BISHOP OF CARLISLE , DUKE OF AUMERLE , SIR STEPHEN SCROOP , and EARL OF SALISBURY See , see , King Richard doth himself appear , As doth the blushing discontented sun From out the fiery portal of the east , When he perceives the envious clouds are bent To dim his glory and to stain the track Of his bright passage to the occident .
DUKE OF YORK : Yet looks he like a king : behold , his eye , As bright as is the eagle 's , lightens forth Controlling majesty : alack , alack , for woe , That any harm should stain so fair a show !
KING RICHARD II : We are amazed ; and thus long have we stood To watch the fearful bending of thy knee , To NORTHUMBERLAND Because we thought ourself thy lawful king : And if we be , how dare thy joints forget To pay their awful duty to our presence ? If we be not , show us the hand of God That hath dismissed us from our stewardship ; For well we know , no hand of blood and bone Can gripe the sacred handle of our sceptre , Unless he do profane , steal , or usurp . And though you think that all , as you have done , Have torn their souls by turning them from us , And we are barren and bereft of friends ; Yet know , my master , God omnipotent , Is mustering in his clouds on our behalf Armies of pestilence ; and they shall strike Your children yet unborn and unbegot , That lift your vassal hands against my head And threat the glory of my precious crown . Tell Bolingbroke--for yond methinks he stands-- That every stride he makes upon my land Is dangerous treason : he is come to open The purple testament of bleeding war ; But ere the crown he looks for live in peace , Ten thousand bloody crowns of mothers ' sons Shall ill become the flower of England 's face , Change the complexion of her maid-pale peace To scarlet indignation and bedew Her pastures ' grass with faithful English blood .
