THOMAS MOWBRAY : No , Bolingbroke : if ever I were traitor , My name be blotted from the book of life , And I from heaven banish 'd as from hence ! But what thou art , God , thou , and I do know ; And all too soon , I fear , the king shall rue . Farewell , my liege . Now no way can I stray ; Save back to England , all the world 's my way . Exit
KING RICHARD II : Uncle , even in the glasses of thine eyes I see thy grieved heart : thy sad aspect Hath from the number of his banish 'd years Pluck 'd four away . To HENRY BOLINGBROKE Six frozen winter spent , Return with welcome home from banishment .
HENRY BOLINGBROKE : How long a time lies in one little word ! Four lagging winters and four wanton springs End in a word : such is the breath of kings .
JOHN OF GAUNT : I thank my liege , that in regard of me He shortens four years of my son 's exile : But little vantage shall I reap thereby ; For , ere the six years that he hath to spend Can change their moons and bring their times about My oil-dried lamp and time-bewasted light Shall be extinct with age and endless night ; My inch of taper will be burnt and done , And blindfold death not let me see my son .
KING RICHARD II : Why uncle , thou hast many years to live .
JOHN OF GAUNT : But not a minute , king , that thou canst give : Shorten my days thou canst with sullen sorrow , And pluck nights from me , but not lend a morrow ; Thou canst help time to furrow me with age , But stop no wrinkle in his pilgrimage ; Thy word is current with him for my death , But dead , thy kingdom cannot buy my breath .
KING RICHARD II : Thy son is banish 'd upon good advice , Whereto thy tongue a party-verdict gave : Why at our justice seem 'st thou then to lour ?
JOHN OF GAUNT : Things sweet to taste prove in digestion sour . You urged me as a judge ; but I had rather You would have bid me argue like a father . O , had it been a stranger , not my child , To smooth his fault I should have been more mild : A partial slander sought I to avoid , And in the sentence my own life destroy 'd . Alas , I look 'd when some of you should say , I was too strict to make mine own away ; But you gave leave to my unwilling tongue Against my will to do myself this wrong .
KING RICHARD II : Cousin , farewell ; and , uncle , bid him so : Six years we banish him , and he shall go .
DUKE OF AUMERLE : Cousin , farewell : what presence must not know , From where you do remain let paper show .
Lord Marshal : My lord , no leave take I ; for I will ride , As far as land will let me , by your side .
JOHN OF GAUNT : O , to what purpose dost thou hoard thy words , That thou return 'st no greeting to thy friends ?
HENRY BOLINGBROKE : I have too few to take my leave of you , When the tongue 's office should be prodigal To breathe the abundant dolour of the heart .
JOHN OF GAUNT : Thy grief is but thy absence for a time .
HENRY BOLINGBROKE : Joy absent , grief is present for that time .
JOHN OF GAUNT : What is six winters ? they are quickly gone .
HENRY BOLINGBROKE : To men in joy ; but grief makes one hour ten .
JOHN OF GAUNT : Call it a travel that thou takest for pleasure .
HENRY BOLINGBROKE : My heart will sigh when I miscall it so , Which finds it an inforced pilgrimage .
JOHN OF GAUNT : The sullen passage of thy weary steps Esteem as foil wherein thou art to set The precious jewel of thy home return .
