HENRY BOLINGBROKE : My gracious lord , I come but for mine own .
KING RICHARD II : Your own is yours , and I am yours , and all .
HENRY BOLINGBROKE : So far be mine , my most redoubted lord , As my true service shall deserve your love .
KING RICHARD II : Well you deserve : they well deserve to have , That know the strong 'st and surest way to get . Uncle , give me your hands : nay , dry your eyes ; Tears show their love , but want their remedies . Cousin , I am too young to be your father , Though you are old enough to be my heir . What you will have , I 'll give , and willing too ; For do we must what force will have us do . Set on towards London , cousin , is it so ?
HENRY BOLINGBROKE : Yea , my good lord .
KING RICHARD II : Then I must not say no . Enter the QUEEN and two Ladies
QUEEN : What sport shall we devise here in this garden , To drive away the heavy thought of care ?
Lady : Madam , we 'll play at bowls .
QUEEN : ' Twill make me think the world is full of rubs , And that my fortune rubs against the bias .
Lady : Madam , we 'll dance .
QUEEN : My legs can keep no measure in delight , When my poor heart no measure keeps in grief : Therefore , no dancing , girl ; some other sport .
Lady : Madam , we 'll tell tales .
QUEEN : Of sorrow or of joy ?
Lady : Of either , madam .
QUEEN : Of neither , girl : For of joy , being altogether wanting , It doth remember me the more of sorrow ; Or if of grief , being altogether had , It adds more sorrow to my want of joy : For what I have I need not to repeat ; And what I want it boots not to complain .
Lady : Madam , I 'll sing .
QUEEN : ' Tis well that thou hast cause But thou shouldst please me better , wouldst thou weep .
Lady : I could weep , madam , would it do you good .
QUEEN : And I could sing , would weeping do me good , And never borrow any tear of thee . Enter a Gardener , and two Servants But stay , here come the gardeners : Let 's step into the shadow of these trees . My wretchedness unto a row of pins , They 'll talk of state ; for every one doth so Against a change ; woe is forerun with woe . QUEEN and Ladies retire
Gardener : Go , bind thou up yon dangling apricocks , Which , like unruly children , make their sire Stoop with oppression of their prodigal weight : Give some supportance to the bending twigs . Go thou , and like an executioner , Cut off the heads of too fast growing sprays , That look too lofty in our commonwealth : All must be even in our government . You thus employ 'd , I will go root away The noisome weeds , which without profit suck The soil 's fertility from wholesome flowers .
Servant : Why should we in the compass of a pale Keep law and form and due proportion , Showing , as in a model , our firm estate , When our sea-walled garden , the whole land , Is full of weeds , her fairest flowers choked up , Her fruit-trees all upturned , her hedges ruin 'd , Her knots disorder 'd and her wholesome herbs Swarming with caterpillars ?
Gardener : Hold thy peace : He that hath suffer 'd this disorder 'd spring Hath now himself met with the fall of leaf : The weeds which his broad-spreading leaves did shelter , That seem 'd in eating him to hold him up , Are pluck 'd up root and all by Bolingbroke , I mean the Earl of Wiltshire , Bushy , Green .
Servant : What , are they dead ?
