JOHN OF GAUNT : All places that the eye of heaven visits Are to a wise man ports and happy havens . Teach thy necessity to reason thus ; There is no virtue like necessity . Think not the king did banish thee , But thou the king . Woe doth the heavier sit , Where it perceives it is but faintly borne . Go , say I sent thee forth to purchase honour And not the king exiled thee ; or suppose Devouring pestilence hangs in our air And thou art flying to a fresher clime : Look , what thy soul holds dear , imagine it To lie that way thou go 'st , not whence thou comest : Suppose the singing birds musicians , The grass whereon thou tread 'st the presence strew 'd , The flowers fair ladies , and thy steps no more Than a delightful measure or a dance ; For gnarling sorrow hath less power to bite The man that mocks at it and sets it light .
HENRY BOLINGBROKE : O , who can hold a fire in his hand By thinking on the frosty Caucasus ? Or cloy the hungry edge of appetite By bare imagination of a feast ? Or wallow naked in December snow By thinking on fantastic summer 's heat ? O , no ! the apprehension of the good Gives but the greater feeling to the worse : Fell sorrow 's tooth doth never rankle more Than when he bites , but lanceth not the sore .
JOHN OF GAUNT : Come , come , my son , I 'll bring thee on thy way : Had I thy youth and cause , I would not stay .
HENRY BOLINGBROKE : Then , England 's ground , farewell ; sweet soil , adieu ; My mother , and my nurse , that bears me yet ! Where 'er I wander , boast of this I can , Though banish 'd , yet a trueborn Englishman . Enter KING RICHARD II , with BAGOT and GREEN at one door ; and the DUKE OF AUMERLE at another
KING RICHARD II : We did observe . Cousin Aumerle , How far brought you high Hereford on his way ?
DUKE OF AUMERLE : I brought high Hereford , if you call him so , But to the next highway , and there I left him .
KING RICHARD II : And say , what store of parting tears were shed ?
DUKE OF AUMERLE : Faith , none for me ; except the north-east wind , Which then blew bitterly against our faces , Awaked the sleeping rheum , and so by chance Did grace our hollow parting with a tear .
KING RICHARD II : What said our cousin when you parted with him ?
DUKE OF AUMERLE : ' Farewell : ' And , for my heart disdained that my tongue Should so profane the word , that taught me craft To counterfeit oppression of such grief That words seem 'd buried in my sorrow 's grave . Marry , would the word ' farewell ' have lengthen 'd hours And added years to his short banishment , He should have had a volume of farewells ; But since it would not , he had none of me .
KING RICHARD II : He is our cousin , cousin ; but ' tis doubt , When time shall call him home from banishment , Whether our kinsman come to see his friends . Ourself and Bushy , Bagot here and Green Observed his courtship to the common people ; How he did seem to dive into their hearts With humble and familiar courtesy , What reverence he did throw away on slaves , Wooing poor craftsmen with the craft of smiles And patient underbearing of his fortune , As ' twere to banish their affects with him . Off goes his bonnet to an oyster-wench ; A brace of draymen bid God speed him well And had the tribute of his supple knee , With ' Thanks , my countrymen , my loving friends ; ' As were our England in reversion his , And he our subjects ' next degree in hope .
GREEN : Well , he is gone ; and with him go these thoughts . Now for the rebels which stand out in Ireland , Expedient manage must be made , my liege , Ere further leisure yield them further means For their advantage and your highness ' loss .
