KING RICHARD II : Northumberland , say thus the king returns : His noble cousin is right welcome hither ; And all the number of his fair demands Shall be accomplish 'd without contradiction : With all the gracious utterance thou hast Speak to his gentle hearing kind commends . We do debase ourselves , cousin , do we not , To DUKE OF AUMERLE To look so poorly and to speak so fair ? Shall we call back Northumberland , and send Defiance to the traitor , and so die ?
DUKE OF AUMERLE : No , good my lord ; let 's fight with gentle words Till time lend friends and friends their helpful swords .
KING RICHARD II : O God , O God ! that e 'er this tongue of mine , That laid the sentence of dread banishment On yon proud man , should take it off again With words of sooth ! O that I were as great As is my grief , or lesser than my name ! Or that I could forget what I have been , Or not remember what I must be now ! Swell 'st thou , proud heart ? I 'll give thee scope to beat , Since foes have scope to beat both thee and me .
DUKE OF AUMERLE : Northumberland comes back from Bolingbroke .
KING RICHARD II : What must the king do now ? must he submit ? The king shall do it : must he be deposed ? The king shall be contented : must he lose The name of king ? o ' God 's name , let it go : I 'll give my jewels for a set of beads , My gorgeous palace for a hermitage , My gay apparel for an almsman 's gown , My figured goblets for a dish of wood , My sceptre for a palmer 's walking staff , My subjects for a pair of carved saints And my large kingdom for a little grave , A little little grave , an obscure grave ; Or I 'll be buried in the king 's highway , Some way of common trade , where subjects ' feet May hourly trample on their sovereign 's head ; For on my heart they tread now whilst I live ; And buried once , why not upon my head ? Aumerle , thou weep 'st , my tender-hearted cousin ! We 'll make foul weather with despised tears ; Our sighs and they shall lodge the summer corn , And make a dearth in this revolting land . Or shall we play the wantons with our woes , And make some pretty match with shedding tears ? As thus , to drop them still upon one place , Till they have fretted us a pair of graves Within the earth ; and , therein laid , --there lies Two kinsmen digg 'd their graves with weeping eyes . Would not this ill do well ? Well , well , I see I talk but idly , and you laugh at me . Most mighty prince , my Lord Northumberland , What says King Bolingbroke ? will his majesty Give Richard leave to live till Richard die ? You make a leg , and Bolingbroke says ay .
NORTHUMBERLAND : My lord , in the base court he doth attend To speak with you ; may it please you to come down .
KING RICHARD II : Down , down I come ; like glistering Phaethon , Wanting the manage of unruly jades . In the base court ? Base court , where kings grow base , To come at traitors ' calls and do them grace . In the base court ? Come down ? Down , court ! down , king ! For night-owls shriek where mounting larks should sing .
HENRY BOLINGBROKE : What says his majesty ?
NORTHUMBERLAND : Sorrow and grief of heart Makes him speak fondly , like a frantic man Yet he is come . Enter KING RICHARD and his attendants below
HENRY BOLINGBROKE : Stand all apart , And show fair duty to his majesty . He kneels down My gracious lord , --
