Groom : Hail , royal prince !
KING RICHARD II : Thanks , noble peer ; The cheapest of us is ten groats too dear . What art thou ? and how comest thou hither , Where no man never comes but that sad dog That brings me food to make misfortune live ?
Groom : I was a poor groom of thy stable , king , When thou wert king ; who , travelling towards York , With much ado at length have gotten leave To look upon my sometimes royal master 's face . O , how it yearn 'd my heart when I beheld In London streets , that coronation-day , When Bolingbroke rode on roan Barbary , That horse that thou so often hast bestrid , That horse that I so carefully have dress 'd !
KING RICHARD II : Rode he on Barbary ? Tell me , gentle friend , How went he under him ?
Groom : So proudly as if he disdain 'd the ground .
KING RICHARD II : So proud that Bolingbroke was on his back ! That jade hath eat bread from my royal hand ; This hand hath made him proud with clapping him . Would he not stumble ? would he not fall down , Since pride must have a fall , and break the neck Of that proud man that did usurp his back ? Forgiveness , horse ! why do I rail on thee , Since thou , created to be awed by man , Wast born to bear ? I was not made a horse ; And yet I bear a burthen like an ass , Spurr 'd , gall 'd and tired by jouncing Bolingbroke . Enter Keeper , with a dish
Keeper : Fellow , give place ; here is no longer stay .
KING RICHARD II : If thou love me , ' tis time thou wert away .
Groom : What my tongue dares not , that my heart shall say . Exit
Keeper : My lord , will 't please you to fall to ?
KING RICHARD II : Taste of it first , as thou art wont to do .
Keeper : My lord , I dare not : Sir Pierce of Exton , who lately came from the king , commands the contrary .
KING RICHARD II : The devil take Henry of Lancaster and thee ! Patience is stale , and I am weary of it . Beats the keeper
Keeper : Help , help , help ! Enter EXTON and Servants , armed
KING RICHARD II : How now ! what means death in this rude assault ? Villain , thy own hand yields thy death 's instrument . Snatching an axe from a Servant and killing him Go thou , and fill another room in hell . He kills another . Then Exton strikes him down That hand shall burn in never-quenching fire That staggers thus my person . Exton , thy fierce hand Hath with the king 's blood stain 'd the king 's own land . Mount , mount , my soul ! thy seat is up on high ; Whilst my gross flesh sinks downward , here to die . Dies
EXTON : As full of valour as of royal blood : Both have I spill 'd ; O would the deed were good ! For now the devil , that told me I did well , Says that this deed is chronicled in hell . This dead king to the living king I 'll bear Take hence the rest , and give them burial here . Flourish . Enter HENRY BOLINGBROKE , DUKE OF YORK , with other Lords , and Attendants
HENRY BOLINGBROKE : Kind uncle York , the latest news we hear Is that the rebels have consumed with fire Our town of Cicester in Gloucestershire ; But whether they be ta 'en or slain we hear not . Enter NORTHUMBERLAND Welcome , my lord what is the news ?
NORTHUMBERLAND : First , to thy sacred state wish I all happiness . The next news is , I have to London sent The heads of Oxford , Salisbury , Blunt , and Kent : The manner of their taking may appear At large discoursed in this paper here .
HENRY BOLINGBROKE : We thank thee , gentle Percy , for thy pains ; And to thy worth will add right worthy gains . Enter LORD FITZWATER
