KING RICHARD II : Right , you say true : as Hereford 's love , so his ; As theirs , so mine ; and all be as it is . Enter NORTHUMBERLAND
NORTHUMBERLAND : My liege , old Gaunt commends him to your majesty .
KING RICHARD II : What says he ?
NORTHUMBERLAND : Nay , nothing ; all is said His tongue is now a stringless instrument ; Words , life and all , old Lancaster hath spent .
DUKE OF YORK : Be York the next that must be bankrupt so ! Though death be poor , it ends a mortal woe .
KING RICHARD II : The ripest fruit first falls , and so doth he ; His time is spent , our pilgrimage must be . So much for that . Now for our Irish wars : We must supplant those rough rug-headed kerns , Which live like venom where no venom else But only they have privilege to live . And for these great affairs do ask some charge , Towards our assistance we do seize to us The plate , corn , revenues and moveables , Whereof our uncle Gaunt did stand possess 'd .
DUKE OF YORK : How long shall I be patient ? ah , how long Shall tender duty make me suffer wrong ? Not Gloucester 's death , nor Hereford 's banishment Not Gaunt 's rebukes , nor England 's private wrongs , Nor the prevention of poor Bolingbroke About his marriage , nor my own disgrace , Have ever made me sour my patient cheek , Or bend one wrinkle on my sovereign 's face . I am the last of noble Edward 's sons , Of whom thy father , Prince of Wales , was first : In war was never lion raged more fierce , In peace was never gentle lamb more mild , Than was that young and princely gentleman . His face thou hast , for even so look 'd he , Accomplish 'd with the number of thy hours ; But when he frown 'd , it was against the French And not against his friends ; his noble hand Did will what he did spend and spent not that Which his triumphant father 's hand had won ; His hands were guilty of no kindred blood , But bloody with the enemies of his kin . O Richard ! York is too far gone with grief , Or else he never would compare between .
KING RICHARD II : Why , uncle , what 's the matter ?
DUKE OF YORK : O my liege , Pardon me , if you please ; if n ot , I , pleased Not to be pardon 'd , am content withal . Seek you to seize and gripe into your hands The royalties and rights of banish 'd Hereford ? Is not Gaunt dead , and doth not Hereford live ? Was not Gaunt just , and is not Harry true ? Did not the one deserve to have an heir ? Is not his heir a well-deserving son ? Take Hereford 's rights away , and take from Time His charters and his customary rights ; Let not to-morrow then ensue to-day ; Be not thyself ; for how art thou a king But by fair sequence and succession ? Now , afore God--God forbid I say true ! -- If you do wrongfully seize Hereford 's rights , Call in the letters patent that he hath By his attorneys-general to sue His livery , and deny his offer 'd homage , You pluck a thousand dangers on your head , You lose a thousand well-disposed hearts And prick my tender patience , to those thoughts Which honour and allegiance cannot think .
KING RICHARD II : Think what you will , we seize into our hands His plate , his goods , his money and his lands .
DUKE OF YORK : I 'll not be by the while : my liege , farewell : What will ensue hereof , there 's none can tell ; But by bad courses may be understood That their events can never fall out good . Exit
