DUKE OF AUMERLE : Comfort , my liege ; why looks your grace so pale ?
KING RICHARD II : But now the blood of twenty thousand men Did triumph in my face , and they are fled ; And , till so much blood thither come again , Have I not reason to look pale and dead ? All souls that will be safe fly from my side , For time hath set a blot upon my pride .
DUKE OF AUMERLE : Comfort , my liege ; remember who you are .
KING RICHARD II : I had forgot myself ; am I not king ? Awake , thou coward majesty ! thou sleepest . Is not the king 's name twenty thousand names ? Arm , arm , my name ! a puny subject strikes At thy great glory . Look not to the ground , Ye favourites of a king : are we not high ? High be our thoughts : I know my uncle York Hath power enough to serve our turn . But who comes here ? Enter SIR STEPHEN SCROOP
SIR STEPHEN SCROOP : More health and happiness betide my liege Than can my care-tuned tongue deliver him !
KING RICHARD II : Mine ear is open and my heart prepared ; The worst is worldly loss thou canst unfold . Say , is my kingdom lost ? why , ' twas my care And what loss is it to be rid of care ? Strives Bolingbroke to be as great as we ? Greater he shall not be ; if he serve God , We 'll serve Him too and be his fellow so : Revolt our subjects ? that we cannot mend ; They break their faith to God as well as us : Cry woe , destruction , ruin and decay : The worst is death , and death will have his day .
SIR STEPHEN SCROOP : Glad am I that your highness is so arm 'd To bear the tidings of calamity . Like an unseasonable stormy day , Which makes the silver rivers drown their shores , As if the world were all dissolved to tears , So high above his limits swells the rage Of Bolingbroke , covering your fearful land With hard bright steel and hearts harder than steel . White-beards have arm 'd their thin and hairless scalps Against thy majesty ; boys , with women 's voices , Strive to speak big and clap their female joints In stiff unwieldy arms against thy crown : The very beadsmen learn to bend their bows Of double-fatal yew against thy state ; Yea , distaff-women manage rusty bills Against thy seat : both young and old rebel , And all goes worse than I have power to tell .
KING RICHARD II : Too well , too well thou tell 'st a tale so ill . Where is the Earl of Wiltshire ? where is Bagot ? What is become of Bushy ? where is Green ? That they have let the dangerous enemy Measure our confines with such peaceful steps ? If we prevail , their heads shall pay for it : I warrant they have made peace with Bolingbroke .
SIR STEPHEN SCROOP : Peace have they made with him indeed , my lord .
KING RICHARD II : O villains , vipers , damn 'd without redemption ! Dogs , easily won to fawn on any man ! Snakes , in my heart-blood warm 'd , that sting my heart ! Three Judases , each one thrice worse than Judas ! Would they make peace ? terrible hell make war Upon their spotted souls for this offence !
SIR STEPHEN SCROOP : Sweet love , I see , changing his property , Turns to the sourest and most deadly hate : Again uncurse their souls ; their peace is made With heads , and not with hands ; those whom you curse Have felt the worst of death 's destroying wound And lie full low , graved in the hollow ground .
DUKE OF AUMERLE : Is Bushy , Green , and the Earl of Wiltshire dead ?
SIR STEPHEN SCROOP : Ay , all of them at Bristol lost their heads .
DUKE OF AUMERLE : Where is the duke my father with his power ?
