Lord Marshal : Sound , trumpets ; and set forward , combatants . A charge sounded Stay , the king hath thrown his warder down .
KING RICHARD II : Let them lay by their helmets and their spears , And both return back to their chairs again : Withdraw with us : and let the trumpets sound While we return these dukes what we decree . A long flourish Draw near , And list what with our council we have done . For that our kingdom 's earth should not be soil 'd With that dear blood which it hath fostered ; And for our eyes do hate the dire aspect Of civil wounds plough 'd up with neighbours ' sword ; And for we think the eagle-winged pride Of sky-aspiring and ambitious thoughts , With rival-hating envy , set on you To wake our peace , which in our country 's cradle Draws the sweet infant breath of gentle sleep ; Which so roused up with boisterous untuned drums , With harsh resounding trumpets ' dreadful bray , And grating shock of wrathful iron arms , Might from our quiet confines fright fair peace And make us wade even in our kindred 's blood , Therefore , we banish you our territories : You , cousin Hereford , upon pain of life , Till twice five summers have enrich 'd our fields Shall not regreet our fair dominions , But tread the stranger paths of banishment .
HENRY BOLINGBROKE : Your will be done : this must my comfort be , Sun that warms you here shall shine on me ; And those his golden beams to you here lent Shall point on me and gild my banishment .
KING RICHARD II : Norfolk , for thee remains a heavier doom , Which I with some unwillingness pronounce : The sly slow hours shall not determinate The dateless limit of thy dear exile ; The hopeless word of ' never to return ' Breathe I against thee , upon pain of life .
THOMAS MOWBRAY : A heavy sentence , my most sovereign liege , And all unlook 'd for from your highness ' mouth : A dearer merit , not so deep a maim As to be cast forth in the common air , Have I deserved at your highness ' hands . The language I have learn 'd these forty years , My native English , now I must forego : And now my tongue 's use is to me no more Than an unstringed viol or a harp , Or like a cunning instrument cased up , Or , being open , put into his hands That knows no touch to tune the harmony : Within my mouth you have engaol 'd my tongue , Doubly portcullis 'd with my teeth and lips ; And dull unfeeling barren ignorance Is made my gaoler to attend on me . I am too old to fawn upon a nurse , Too far in years to be a pupil now : What is thy sentence then but speechless death , Which robs my tongue from breathing native breath ?
KING RICHARD II : It boots thee not to be compassionate : After our sentence plaining comes too late .
THOMAS MOWBRAY : Then thus I turn me from my country 's light , To dwell in solemn shades of endless night .
KING RICHARD II : Return again , and take an oath with thee . Lay on our royal sword your banish 'd hands ; Swear by the duty that you owe to God-- Our part therein we banish with yourselves-- To keep the oath that we administer : You never shall , so help you truth and God ! Embrace each other 's love in banishment ; Nor never look upon each other 's face ; Nor never write , regreet , nor reconcile This louring tempest of your home-bred hate ; Nor never by advised purpose meet To plot , contrive , or complot any ill ' Gainst us , our state , our subjects , or our land .
HENRY BOLINGBROKE : I swear .
THOMAS MOWBRAY : And I , to keep all this .
