LORD ROSS : To horse , to horse ! urge doubts to them that fear .
LORD WILLOUGHBY : Hold out my horse , and I will first be there . Enter QUEEN , BUSHY , and BAGOT
BUSHY : Madam , your majesty is too much sad : You promised , when you parted with the king , To lay aside life-harming heaviness And entertain a cheerful disposition .
QUEEN : To please the king I did ; to please myself I cannot do it ; yet I know no cause Why I should welcome such a guest as grief , Save bidding farewell to so sweet a guest As my sweet Richard : yet again , methinks , Some unborn sorrow , ripe in fortune 's womb , Is coming towards me , and my inward soul With nothing trembles : at some thing it grieves , More than with parting from my lord the king .
BUSHY : Each substance of a grief hath twenty shadows , Which shows like grief itself , but is not so ; For sorrow 's eye , glazed with blinding tears , Divides one thing entire to many objects ; Like perspectives , which rightly gazed upon Show nothing but confusion , eyed awry Distinguish form : so your sweet majesty , Looking awry upon your lord 's departure , Find shapes of grief , more than himself , to wail ; Which , look 'd on as it is , is nought but shadows Of what it is not . Then , thrice-gracious queen , More than your lord 's departure weep not : more 's not seen ; Or if it be , ' tis with false sorrow 's eye , Which for things true weeps things imaginary .
QUEEN : It may be so ; but yet my inward soul Persuades me it is otherwise : howe 'er it be , I cannot but be sad ; so heavy sad As , though on thinking on no thought I think , Makes me with heavy nothing faint and shrink .
BUSHY : ' Tis nothing but conceit , my gracious lady .
QUEEN : ' Tis nothing less : conceit is still derived From some forefather grief ; mine is not so , For nothing had begot my something grief ; Or something hath the nothing that I grieve : ' Tis in reversion that I do possess ; But what it is , that is not yet known ; what I cannot name ; ' tis nameless woe , I wot . Enter GREEN
GREEN : God save your majesty ! and well met , gentlemen : I hope the king is not yet shipp 'd for Ireland .
QUEEN : Why hopest thou so ? ' tis better hope he is ; For his designs crave haste , his haste good hope : Then wherefore dost thou hope he is not shipp 'd ?
GREEN : That he , our hope , might have retired his power , And driven into despair an enemy 's hope , Who strongly hath set footing in this land : The banish 'd Bolingbroke repeals himself , And with uplifted arms is safe arrived At Ravenspurgh .
QUEEN : Now God in heaven forbid !
GREEN : Ah , madam , ' tis too true : and that is worse , The Lord Northumberland , his son young Henry Percy , The Lords of Ross , Beaumond , and Willoughby , With all their powerful friends , are fled to him .
BUSHY : Why have you not proclaim 'd Northumberland And all the rest revolted faction traitors ?
GREEN : We have : whereupon the Earl of Worcester Hath broke his staff , resign 'd his stewardship , And all the household servants fled with him To Bolingbroke .
QUEEN : So , Green , thou art the midwife to my woe , And Bolingbroke my sorrow 's dismal heir : Now hath my soul brought forth her prodigy , And I , a gasping new-deliver 'd mother , Have woe to woe , sorrow to sorrow join 'd .
BUSHY : Despair not , madam .
QUEEN : Who shall hinder me ? I will despair , and be at enmity With cozening hope : he is a flatterer , A parasite , a keeper back of death , Who gently would dissolve the bands of life , Which false hope lingers in extremity . Enter DUKE OF YORK
