JOHN OF GAUNT : To be a make-peace shall become my age : Throw down , my son , the Duke of Norfolk 's gage .
KING RICHARD II : And , Norfolk , throw down his .
JOHN OF GAUNT : When , Harry , when ? Obedience bids I should not bid again .
KING RICHARD II : Norfolk , throw down , we bid ; there is no boot .
THOMAS MOWBRAY : Myself I throw , dread sovereign , at thy foot . My life thou shalt command , but not my shame : The one my duty owes ; but my fair name , Despite of death that lives upon my grave , To dark dishonour 's use thou shalt not have . I am disgraced , impeach 'd and baffled here , Pierced to the soul with slander 's venom 'd spear , The which no balm can cure but his heart-blood Which breathed this poison .
KING RICHARD II : Rage must be withstood : Give me his gage : lions make leopards tame .
THOMAS MOWBRAY : Yea , but not change his spots : take but my shame . And I resign my gage . My dear dear lord , The purest treasure mortal times afford Is spotless reputation : that away , Men are but gilded loam or painted clay . A jewel in a ten-times-barr 'd-up chest Is a bold spirit in a loyal breast . Mine honour is my life ; both grow in one : Take honour from me , and my life is done : Then , dear my liege , mine honour let me try ; In that I live and for that will I die .
KING RICHARD II : Cousin , throw up your gage ; do you begin .
HENRY BOLINGBROKE : O , God defend my soul from such deep sin ! Shall I seem crest-fall 'n in my father 's sight ? Or with pale beggar-fear impeach my height Before this out-dared dastard ? Ere my tongue Shall wound my honour with such feeble wrong , Or sound so base a parle , my teeth shall tear The slavish motive of recanting fear , And spit it bleeding in his high disgrace , Where shame doth harbour , even in Mowbray 's face . Exit JOHN OF GAUNT
KING RICHARD II : We were not born to sue , but to command ; Which since we cannot do to make you friends , Be ready , as your lives shall answer it , At Coventry , upon Saint Lambert 's day : There shall your swords and lances arbitrate The swelling difference of your settled hate : Since we can not atone you , we shall see Justice design the victor 's chivalry . Lord marshal , command our officers at arms Be ready to direct these home alarms . Enter JOHN OF GAUNT with DUCHESS
JOHN OF GAUNT : Alas , the part I had in Woodstock 's blood Doth more solicit me than your exclaims , To stir against the butchers of his life ! But since correction lieth in those hands Which made the fault that we cannot correct , Put we our quarrel to the will of heaven ; Who , when they see the hours ripe on earth , Will rain hot vengeance on offenders ' heads .
