JOHN OF GAUNT : God 's is the quarrel ; for God 's substitute , His deputy anointed in His sight , Hath caused his death : the which if wrongfully , Let heaven revenge ; for I may never lift An angry arm against His minister .
DUCHESS : Where then , alas , may I complain myself ?
JOHN OF GAUNT : To God , the widow 's champion and defence .
DUCHESS : Why , then , I will . Farewell , old Gaunt . Thou goest to Coventry , there to behold Our cousin Hereford and fell Mowbray fight : O , sit my husband 's wrongs on Hereford 's spear , That it may enter butcher Mowbray 's breast ! Or , if misfortune miss the first career , Be Mowbray 's sins so heavy in his bosom , They may break his foaming courser 's back , And throw the rider headlong in the lists , A caitiff recreant to my cousin Hereford ! Farewell , old Gaunt : thy sometimes brother 's wife With her companion grief must end her life .
JOHN OF GAUNT : Sister , farewell ; I must to Coventry : As much good stay with thee as go with me !
DUCHESS : Yet one word more : grief boundeth where it falls , Not with the empty hollowness , but weight : I take my leave before I have begun , For sorrow ends not when it seemeth done . Commend me to thy brother , Edmund York . Lo , this is all : --nay , yet depart not so ; Though this be all , do not so quickly go ; I shall remember more . Bid him--ah , what ? -- With all good speed at Plashy visit me . Alack , and what shall good old York there see But empty lodgings and unfurnish 'd walls , Unpeopled offices , untrodden stones ? And what hear there for welcome but my groans ? Therefore commend me ; let him not come there , To seek out sorrow that dwells every where . Desolate , desolate , will I hence and die : The last leave of thee takes my weeping eye . Enter the Lord Marshal and the DUKE OF AUMERLE
Lord Marshal : My Lord Aumerle , is Harry Hereford arm 'd ?
DUKE OF AUMERLE : Yea , at all points ; and longs to enter in .
Lord Marshal : The Duke of Norfolk , sprightfully and bold , Stays but the summons of the appellant 's trumpet .
DUKE OF AUMERLE : Why , then , the champions are prepared , and stay For nothing but his majesty 's approach . The trumpets sound , and KING RICHARD enters with his nobles , JOHN OF GAUNT , BUSHY , BAGOT , GREEN , and others . When they are set , enter THOMAS MOWBRAY in arms , defendant , with a Herald
KING RICHARD II : Marshal , demand of yonder champion The cause of his arrival here in arms : Ask him his name and orderly proceed To swear him in the justice of his cause .
Lord Marshal : In God 's name and the king 's , say who thou art And why thou comest thus knightly clad in arms , Against what man thou comest , and what thy quarrel : Speak truly , on thy knighthood and thy oath ; As so defend thee heaven and thy valour !
THOMAS MOWBRAY : My name is Thomas Mowbray , Duke of Norfolk ; Who hither come engaged by my oath-- Which God defend a knight should violate ! -- Both to defend my loyalty and truth To God , my king and my succeeding issue , Against the Duke of Hereford that appeals me And , by the grace of God and this mine arm , To prove him , in defending of myself , A traitor to my God , my king , and me : And as I truly fight , defend me heaven ! The trumpets sound . Enter HENRY BOLINGBROKE , appellant , in armour , with a Herald
KING RICHARD II : Marshal , ask yonder knight in arms , Both who he is and why he cometh hither Thus plated in habiliments of war , And formally , according to our law , Depose him in the justice of his cause .
