DUKE OF YORK : Well , well , I see the issue of these arms : I cannot mend it , I must needs confess , Because my power is weak and all ill left : But if I could , by Him that gave me life , I would attach you all and make you stoop Unto the sovereign mercy of the king ; But since I cannot , be it known to you I do remain as neuter . So , fare you well ; Unless you please to enter in the castle And there repose you for this night .
HENRY BOLINGBROKE : An offer , uncle , that we will accept : But we must win your grace to go with us To Bristol castle , which they say is held By Bushy , Bagot and their complices , The caterpillars of the commonwealth , Which I have sworn to weed and pluck away .
DUKE OF YORK : It may be I will go with you : but yet I 'll pause ; For I am loath to break our country 's laws . Nor friends nor foes , to me welcome you are : Things past redress are now with me past care . Enter EARL OF SALISBURY and a Welsh Captain
Captain : My lord of Salisbury , we have stay 'd ten days , And hardly kept our countrymen together , And yet we hear no tidings from the king ; Therefore we will disperse ourselves : farewell .
EARL OF SALISBURY : Stay yet another day , thou trusty Welshman : The king reposeth all his confidence in thee .
Captain : ' Tis thought the king is dead ; we will not stay . The bay-trees in our country are all wither 'd And meteors fright the fixed stars of heaven ; The pale-faced moon looks bloody on the earth And lean-look 'd prophets whisper fearful change ; Rich men look sad and ruffians dance and leap , The one in fear to lose what they enjoy , The other to enjoy by rage and war : These signs forerun the death or fall of kings . Farewell : our countrymen are gone and fled , As well assured Richard their king is dead . Exit
EARL OF SALISBURY : Ah , Richard , with the eyes of heavy mind I see thy glory like a shooting star Fall to the base earth from the firmament . Thy sun sets weeping in the lowly west , Witnessing storms to come , woe and unrest : Thy friends are fled to wait upon thy foes , And crossly to thy good all fortune goes . Exit Enter HENRY BOLINGBROKE , DUKE OF YORK , NORTHUMBERLAND , LORD ROSS , HENRY PERCY , LORD WILLOUGHBY , with BUSHY and GREEN , prisoners
HENRY BOLINGBROKE : Bring forth these men . Bushy and Green , I will not vex your souls-- Since presently your souls must part your bodies-- With too much urging your pernicious lives , For ' twere no charity ; yet , to wash your blood From off my hands , here in the view of men I will unfold some causes of your deaths . You have misled a prince , a royal king , A happy gentleman in blood and lineaments , By you unhappied and disfigured clean : You have in manner with your sinful hours Made a divorce betwixt his queen and him , Broke the possession of a royal bed And stain 'd the beauty of a fair queen 's cheeks With tears drawn from her eyes by your foul wrongs . Myself , a prince by fortune of my birth , Near to the king in blood , and near in love Till you did make him misinterpret me , Have stoop 'd my neck under your injuries , And sigh 'd my English breath in foreign clouds , Eating the bitter bread of banishment ; Whilst you have fed upon my signories , Dispark 'd my parks and fell 'd my forest woods , From my own windows torn my household coat , Razed out my imprese , leaving me no sign , Save men 's opinions and my living blood , To show the world I am a gentleman . This and much more , much more than twice all this , Condemns you to the death . See them deliver 'd over To execution and the hand of death .
