GREEN : My comfort is that heaven will take our souls And plague injustice with the pains of hell .
HENRY BOLINGBROKE : My Lord Northumberland , see them dispatch 'd . Uncle , you say the queen is at your house ; For God 's sake , fairly let her be entreated : Tell her I send to her my kind commends ; Take special care my greetings be deliver 'd .
DUKE OF YORK : A gentleman of mine I have dispatch 'd With letters of your love to her at large .
HENRY BOLINGBROKE : Thank , gentle uncle . Come , lords , away . To fight with Glendower and his complices : Awhile to work , and after holiday . Drums ; flourish and colours . Enter KING RICHARD II , the BISHOP OF CARLISLE , DUKE OF AUMERLE , and Soldiers
KING RICHARD II : Barkloughly castle call they this at hand ?
DUKE OF AUMERLE : Yea , my lord . How brooks your grace the air , After your late tossing on the breaking seas ?
KING RICHARD II : Needs must I like it well : I weep for joy To stand upon my kingdom once again . Dear earth , I do salute thee with my hand , Though rebels wound thee with their horses ' hoofs : As a long-parted mother with her child Plays fondly with her tears and smiles in meeting , So , weeping , smiling , greet I thee , my earth , And do thee favours with my royal hands . Feed not thy sovereign 's foe , my gentle earth , Nor with thy sweets comfort his ravenous sense ; But let thy spiders , that suck up thy venom , And heavy-gaited toads lie in their way , Doing annoyance to the treacherous feet Which with usurping steps do trample thee : Yield stinging nettles to mine enemies ; And when they from thy bosom pluck a flower , Guard it , I pray thee , with a lurking adder Whose double tongue may with a mortal touch Throw death upon thy sovereign 's enemies . Mock not my senseless conjuration , lords : This earth shall have a feeling and these stones Prove armed soldiers , ere her native king Shall falter under foul rebellion 's arms .
BISHOP OF CARLISLE : Fear not , my lord : that Power that made you king Hath power to keep you king in spite of all . The means that heaven yields must be embraced , And not neglected ; else , if heaven would , And we will not , heaven 's offer we refuse , The proffer 'd means of succor and redress .
DUKE OF AUMERLE : He means , my lord , that we are too remiss ; Whilst Bolingbroke , through our security , Grows strong and great in substance and in power .
KING RICHARD II : Discomfortable cousin ! know 'st thou not That when the searching eye of heaven is hid , Behind the globe , that lights the lower world , Then thieves and robbers range abroad unseen In murders and in outrage , boldly here ; But when from under this terrestrial ball He fires the proud tops of the eastern pines And darts his light through every guilty hole , Then murders , treasons and detested sins , The cloak of night being pluck 'd from off their backs , Stand bare and naked , trembling at themselves ? So when this thief , this traitor , Bolingbroke , Who all this while hath revell 'd in the night Whilst we were wandering with the antipodes , Shall see us rising in our throne , the east , His treasons will sit blushing in his face , Not able to endure the sight of day , But self-affrighted tremble at his sin . Not all the water in the rough rude sea Can wash the balm off from an anointed king ; The breath of worldly men cannot depose The deputy elected by the Lord : For every man that Bolingbroke hath press 'd To lift shrewd steel against our golden crown , God for his Richard hath in heavenly pay A glorious angel : then , if angels fight , Weak men must fall , for heaven still guards the right . Enter EARL OF SALISBURY Welcome , my lord how far off lies your power ?
