LORD BERKELEY : Mistake me not , my lord ; ' tis not my meaning To raze one title of your honour out : To you , my lord , I come , what lord you will , From the most gracious regent of this land , The Duke of York , to know what pricks you on To take advantage of the absent time And fright our native peace with self-born arms . Enter DUKE OF YORK attended
HENRY BOLINGBROKE : I shall not need transport my words by you ; Here comes his grace in person . My noble uncle ! Kneels
DUKE OF YORK : Show me thy humble heart , and not thy knee , Whose duty is deceiveable and false .
HENRY BOLINGBROKE : My gracious uncle--
DUKE OF YORK : Tut , tut ! Grace me no grace , nor uncle me no uncle : I am no traitor 's uncle ; and that word ' grace . ' In an ungracious mouth is but profane . Why have those banish 'd and forbidden legs Dared once to touch a dust of England 's ground ? But then more ' why ? ' why have they dared to march So many miles upon her peaceful bosom , Frighting her pale-faced villages with war And ostentation of despised arms ? Comest thou because the anointed king is hence ? Why , foolish boy , the king is left behind , And in my loyal bosom lies his power . Were I but now the lord of such hot youth As when brave Gaunt , thy father , and myself Rescued the Black Prince , that young Mars of men , From forth the ranks of many thousand French , O , then how quickly should this arm of mine . Now prisoner to the palsy , chastise thee And minister correction to thy fault !
HENRY BOLINGBROKE : My gracious uncle , let me know my fault : On what condition stands it and wherein ?
DUKE OF YORK : Even in condition of the worst degree , In gross rebellion and detested treason : Thou art a banish 'd man , and here art come Before the expiration of thy time , In braving arms against thy sovereign .
HENRY BOLINGBROKE : As I was banish 'd , I was banish 'd Hereford ; But as I come , I come for Lancaster . And , noble uncle , I beseech your grace Look on my wrongs with an indifferent eye : You are my father , for methinks in you I see old Gaunt alive ; O , then , my father , Will you permit that I shall stand condemn 'd A wandering vagabond ; my rights and royalties Pluck 'd from my arms perforce and given away To upstart unthrifts ? Wherefore was I born ? If that my cousin king be King of England , It must be granted I am Duke of Lancaster . You have a son , Aumerle , my noble cousin ; Had you first died , and he been thus trod down , He should have found his uncle Gaunt a father , To rouse his wrongs and chase them to the bay . I am denied to sue my livery here , And yet my letters-patents give me leave : My father 's goods are all distrain 'd and sold , And these and all are all amiss employ 'd . What would you have me do ? I am a subject , And I challenge law : attorneys are denied me ; And therefore , personally I lay my claim To my inheritance of free descent .
NORTHUMBERLAND : The noble duke hath been too much abused .
LORD ROSS : It stands your grace upon to do him right .
LORD WILLOUGHBY : Base men by his endowments are made great .
DUKE OF YORK : My lords of England , let me tell you this : I have had feeling of my cousin 's wrongs And laboured all I could to do him right ; But in this kind to come , in braving arms , Be his own carver and cut out his way , To find out right with wrong , it may not be ; And you that do abet him in this kind Cherish rebellion and are rebels all .
