DUKE OF YORK : The king is come : deal mildly with his youth ; For young hot colts being raged do rage the more .
QUEEN : How fares our noble uncle , Lancaster ?
KING RICHARD II : What comfort , man ? how is 't with aged Gaunt ?
JOHN OF GAUNT : O how that name befits my composition ! Old Gaunt indeed , and gaunt in being old : Within me grief hath kept a tedious fast ; And who abstains from meat that is not gaunt ? For sleeping England long time have I watch 'd ; Watching breeds leanness , leanness is all gaunt : The pleasure that some fathers feed upon , Is my strict fast ; I mean , my children 's looks ; And therein fasting , hast thou made me gaunt : Gaunt am I for the grave , gaunt as a grave , Whose hollow womb inherits nought but bones .
KING RICHARD II : Can sick men play so nicely with their names ?
JOHN OF GAUNT : No , misery makes sport to mock itself : Since thou dost seek to kill my name in me , I mock my name , great king , to flatter thee .
KING RICHARD II : Should dying men flatter with those that live ?
JOHN OF GAUNT : No , no , men living flatter those that die .
KING RICHARD II : Thou , now a-dying , say 'st thou flatterest me .
JOHN OF GAUNT : O , no ! thou diest , though I the sicker be .
KING RICHARD II : I am in health , I breathe , and see thee ill .
JOHN OF GAUNT : Now He that made me knows I see thee ill ; Ill in myself to see , and in thee seeing ill . Thy death-bed is no lesser than thy land Wherein thou liest in reputation sick ; And thou , too careless patient as thou art , Commit 'st thy anointed body to the cure Of those physicians that first wounded thee : A thousand flatterers sit within thy crown , Whose compass is no bigger than thy head ; And yet , incaged in so small a verge , The waste is no whit lesser than thy land . O , had thy grandsire with a prophet 's eye Seen how his son 's son should destroy his sons , From forth thy reach he would have laid thy shame , Deposing thee before thou wert possess 'd , Which art possess 'd now to depose thyself . Why , cousin , wert thou regent of the world , It were a shame to let this land by lease ; But for thy world enjoying but this land , Is it not more than shame to shame it so ? Landlord of England art thou now , not king : Thy state of law is bondslave to the law ; And thou--
KING RICHARD II : A lunatic lean-witted fool , Presuming on an ague 's privilege , Darest with thy frozen admonition Make pale our cheek , chasing the royal blood With fury from his native residence . Now , by my seat 's right royal majesty , Wert thou not brother to great Edward 's son , This tongue that runs so roundly in thy head Should run thy head from thy unreverent shoulders .
JOHN OF GAUNT : O , spare me not , my brother Edward 's son , For that I was his father Edward 's son ; That blood already , like the pelican , Hast thou tapp 'd out and drunkenly caroused : My brother Gloucester , plain well-meaning soul , Whom fair befal in heaven ' mongst happy souls ! May be a precedent and witness good That thou respect 'st not spilling Edward 's blood : Join with the present sickness that I have ; And thy unkindness be like crooked age , To crop at once a too long wither 'd flower . Live in thy shame , but die not shame with thee ! These words hereafter thy tormentors be ! Convey me to my bed , then to my grave : Love they to live that love and honour have . Exit , borne off by his Attendants
KING RICHARD II : And let them die that age and sullens have ; For both hast thou , and both become the grave .
