BISHOP OF CARLISLE : As surely as I live , my lord .
HENRY BOLINGBROKE : Sweet peace conduct his sweet soul to the bosom Of good old Abraham ! Lords appellants , Your differences shall all rest under gage Till we assign you to your days of trial . Enter DUKE OF YORK , attended
DUKE OF YORK : Great Duke of Lancaster , I come to thee From plume-pluck 'd Richard ; who with willing soul Adopts thee heir , and his high sceptre yields To the possession of thy royal hand : Ascend his throne , descending now from him ; And long live Henry , fourth of that name !
HENRY BOLINGBROKE : In God 's name , I 'll ascend the regal throne .
BISHOP OF CARLISLE : Marry . God forbid ! Worst in this royal presence may I speak , Yet best beseeming me to speak the truth . Would God that any in this noble presence Were enough noble to be upright judge Of noble Richard ! then true noblesse would Learn him forbearance from so foul a wrong . What subject can give sentence on his king ? And who sits here that is not Richard 's subject ? Thieves are not judged but they are by to hear , Although apparent guilt be seen in them ; And shall the figure of God 's majesty , His captain , steward , deputy-elect , Anointed , crowned , planted many years , Be judged by subject and inferior breath , And he himself not present ? O , forfend it , God , That in a Christian climate souls refined Should show so heinous , black , obscene a deed ! I speak to subjects , and a subject speaks , Stirr 'd up by God , thus boldly for his king : My Lord of Hereford here , whom you call king , Is a foul traitor to proud Hereford 's king : And if you crown him , let me prophesy : The blood of English shall manure the ground , And future ages groan for this foul act ; Peace shall go sleep with Turks and infidels , And in this seat of peace tumultuous wars Shall kin with kin and kind with kind confound ; Disorder , horror , fear and mutiny Shall here inhabit , and this land be call 'd The field of Golgotha and dead men 's skulls . O , if you raise this house against this house , It will the woefullest division prove That ever fell upon this cursed earth . Prevent it , resist it , let it not be so , Lest child , child 's children , cry against you woe !
NORTHUMBERLAND : Well have you argued , sir ; and , for your pains , Of capital treason we arrest you here . My Lord of Westminster , be it your charge To keep him safely till his day of trial . May it please you , lords , to grant the commons ' suit .
HENRY BOLINGBROKE : Fetch hither Richard , that in common view He may surrender ; so we shall proceed Without suspicion .
DUKE OF YORK : I will be his conduct . Exit
HENRY BOLINGBROKE : Lords , you that here are under our arrest , Procure your sureties for your days of answer . Little are we beholding to your love , And little look 'd for at your helping hands . Re-enter DUKE OF YORK , with KING RICHARD II , and Officers bearing the regalia
