KING RICHARD II : Old John of Gaunt , time-honour 'd Lancaster , Hast thou , according to thy oath and band , Brought hither Henry Hereford thy bold son , Here to make good the boisterous late appeal , Which then our leisure would not let us hear , Against the Duke of Norfolk , Thomas Mowbray ?
JOHN OF GAUNT : I have , my liege .
KING RICHARD II : Tell me , moreover , hast thou sounded him , If he appeal the duke on ancient malice ; Or worthily , as a good subject should , On some known ground of treachery in him ?
JOHN OF GAUNT : As near as I could sift him on that argument , On some apparent danger seen in him Aim 'd at your highness , no inveterate malice .
KING RICHARD II : Then call them to our presence ; face to face , And frowning brow to brow , ourselves will hear The accuser and the accused freely speak : High-stomach 'd are they both , and full of ire , In rage deaf as the sea , hasty as fire . Enter HENRY BOLINGBROKE and THOMAS MOWBRAY
HENRY BOLINGBROKE : Many years of happy days befal My gracious sovereign , my most loving liege !
THOMAS MOWBRAY : Each day still better other 's happiness ; Until the heavens , envying earth 's good hap , Add an immortal title to your crown !
KING RICHARD II : We thank you both : yet one but flatters us , As well appeareth by the cause you come ; Namely to appeal each other of high treason . Cousin of Hereford , what dost thou object Against the Duke of Norfolk , Thomas Mowbray ?
HENRY BOLINGBROKE : First , heaven be the record to my speech ! In the devotion of a subject 's love , Tendering the precious safety of my prince , And free from other misbegotten hate , Come I appellant to this princely presence . Now , Thomas Mowbray , do I turn to thee , And mark my greeting well ; for what I speak My body shall make good upon this earth , Or my divine soul answer it in heaven . Thou art a traitor and a miscreant , Too good to be so and too bad to live , Since the more fair and crystal is the sky , The uglier seem the clouds that in it fly . Once more , the more to aggravate the note , With a foul traitor 's name stuff I thy throat ; And wish , so please my sovereign , ere I move , What my tongue speaks my right drawn sword may prove .
THOMAS MOWBRAY : Let not my cold words here accuse my zeal : ' Tis not the trial of a woman 's war , The bitter clamour of two eager tongues , Can arbitrate this cause betwixt us twain ; The blood is hot that must be cool 'd for this : Yet can I not of such tame patience boast As to be hush 'd and nought at all to say : First , the fair reverence of your highness curbs me From giving reins and spurs to my free speech ; Which else would post until it had return 'd These terms of treason doubled down his throat . Setting aside his high blood 's royalty , And let him be no kinsman to my liege , I do defy him , and I spit at him ; Call him a slanderous coward and a villain : Which to maintain I would allow him odds , And meet him , were I tied to run afoot Even to the frozen ridges of the Alps , Or any other ground inhabitable , Where ever Englishman durst set his foot . Mean time let this defend my loyalty , By all my hopes , most falsely doth he lie .
