BUSHY : Old John of Gaunt is grievous sick , my lord , Suddenly taken ; and hath sent post haste To entreat your majesty to visit him .
KING RICHARD II : Where lies he ?
BUSHY : At Ely House .
KING RICHARD II : Now put it , God , in the physician 's mind To help him to his grave immediately ! The lining of his coffers shall make coats To deck our soldiers for these Irish wars . Come , gentlemen , let 's all go visit him : Pray God we may make haste , and come too late !
All : Amen . Enter JOHN OF GAUNT sick , with the DUKE OF YORK , & c
JOHN OF GAUNT : Will the king come , that I may breathe my last In wholesome counsel to his unstaid youth ?
DUKE OF YORK : Vex not yourself , nor strive not with your breath ; For all in vain comes counsel to his ear .
JOHN OF GAUNT : O , but they say the tongues of dying men Enforce attention like deep harmony : Where words are scarce , they are seldom spent in vain , For they breathe truth that breathe their words in pain . He that no more must say is listen 'd more Than they whom youth and ease have taught to glose ; More are men 's ends mark 'd than their lives before : The setting sun , and music at the close , As the last taste of sweets , is sweetest last , Writ in remembrance more than things long past : Though Richard my life 's counsel would not hear , My death 's sad tale may yet undeaf his ear .
DUKE OF YORK : No ; it is stopp 'd with other flattering sounds , As praises , of whose taste the wise are fond , Lascivious metres , to whose venom sound The open ear of youth doth always listen ; Report of fashions in proud Italy , Whose manners still our tardy apish nation Limps after in base imitation . Where doth the world thrust forth a vanity-- So it be new , there 's no respect how vile-- That is not quickly buzzed into his ears ? Then all too late comes counsel to be heard , Where will doth mutiny with wit 's regard . Direct not him whose way himself will choose : ' Tis breath thou lack 'st , and that breath wilt thou lose .
