QUEEN : And must we be divided ? must we part ?
KING RICHARD II : Ay , hand from hand , my love , and heart from heart .
QUEEN : Banish us both and send the king with me .
NORTHUMBERLAND : That were some love but little policy .
QUEEN : Then whither he goes , thither let me go .
KING RICHARD II : So two , together weeping , make one woe . Weep thou for me in France , I for thee here ; Better far off than near , be ne 'er the near . Go , count thy way with sighs ; I mine with groans .
QUEEN : So longest way shall have the longest moans .
KING RICHARD II : Twice for one step I 'll groan , the way being short , And piece the way out with a heavy heart . Come , come , in wooing sorrow let 's be brief , Since , wedding it , there is such length in grief ; One kiss shall stop our mouths , and dumbly part ; Thus give I mine , and thus take I thy heart .
QUEEN : Give me mine own again ; ' twere no good part To take on me to keep and kill thy heart . So , now I have mine own again , be gone , That I might strive to kill it with a groan .
KING RICHARD II : We make woe wanton with this fond delay : Once more , adieu ; the rest let sorrow say . Enter DUKE OF YORK and DUCHESS OF YORK
DUCHESS OF YORK : My lord , you told me you would tell the rest , When weeping made you break the story off , of our two cousins coming into London .
DUKE OF YORK : Where did I leave ?
DUCHESS OF YORK : At that sad stop , my lord , Where rude misgovern 'd hands from windows ' tops Threw dust and rubbish on King Richard 's head .
DUKE OF YORK : Then , as I said , the duke , great Bolingbroke , Mounted upon a hot and fiery steed Which his aspiring rider seem 'd to know , With slow but stately pace kept on his course , Whilst all tongues cried ' God save thee , Bolingbroke ! ' You would have thought the very windows spake , So many greedy looks of young and old Through casements darted their desiring eyes Upon his visage , and that all the walls With painted imagery had said at once ' Jesu preserve thee ! welcome , Bolingbroke ! ' Whilst he , from the one side to the other turning , Bareheaded , lower than his proud steed 's neck , Bespake them thus : ' I thank you , countrymen : ' And thus still doing , thus he pass 'd along .
DUCHESS OF YORK : Alack , poor Richard ! where rode he the whilst ?
DUKE OF YORK : As in a theatre , the eyes of men , After a well-graced actor leaves the stage , Are idly bent on him that enters next , Thinking his prattle to be tedious ; Even so , or with much more contempt , men 's eyes Did scowl on gentle Richard ; no man cried ' God save him ! ' No joyful tongue gave him his welcome home : But dust was thrown upon his sacred head : Which with such gentle sorrow he shook off , His face still combating with tears and smiles , The badges of his grief and patience , That had not God , for some strong purpose , steel 'd The hearts of men , they must perforce have melted And barbarism itself have pitied him . But heaven hath a hand in these events , To whose high will we bound our calm contents . To Bolingbroke are we sworn subjects now , Whose state and honour I for aye allow .
DUCHESS OF YORK : Here comes my son Aumerle .
DUKE OF YORK : Aumerle that was ; But that is lost for being Richard 's friend , And , madam , you must call him Rutland now : I am in parliament pledge for his truth And lasting fealty to the new-made king . Enter DUKE OF AUMERLE
