And that to the infection of my brains :
And hardening of my brows . :
POLIXENES :
What means Sicilia ? :
HERMIONE :
He something seems unsettled . :
POLIXENES :
How , my lord ! :
What cheer ? how is 't with you , best brother ? :
HERMIONE :
You look as if you held a brow of much distraction :
Are you moved , my lord ? :
LEONTES :
No , in good earnest . :
How sometimes nature will betray its folly , :
Its tenderness , and make itself a pastime :
To harder bosoms ! Looking on the lines :
Of my boy 's face , methoughts I did recoil :
Twenty-three years , and saw myself unbreech 'd , :
In my green velvet coat , my dagger muzzled , :
Lest it should bite its master , and so prove , :
As ornaments oft do , too dangerous : :
How like , methought , I then was to this kernel , :
This squash , this gentleman . Mine honest friend , :
Will you take eggs for money ? :
MAMILLIUS :
No , my lord , I 'll fight . :
LEONTES :
You will ! why , happy man be 's dole ! My brother , :
Are you so fond of your young prince as we :
Do seem to be of ours ? :
POLIXENES :
If at home , sir , :
He 's all my exercise , my mirth , my matter , :
Now my sworn friend and then mine enemy , :
My parasite , my soldier , statesman , all : :
He makes a July 's day short as December , :
And with his varying childness cures in me :
Thoughts that would thick my blood . :
LEONTES :
So stands this squire :
Officed with me : we two will walk , my lord , :
And leave you to your graver steps . Hermione , :
How thou lovest us , show in our brother 's welcome ; :
Let what is dear in Sicily be cheap : :
Next to thyself and my young rover , he 's :
Apparent to my heart . :
HERMIONE :
If you would seek us , :
We are yours i ' the garden : shall 's attend you there ? :
LEONTES :
To your own bents dispose you : you 'll be found , :
Be you beneath the sky . :
Aside :
I am angling now , :
Though you perceive me not how I give line . :
Go to , go to ! :
How she holds up the neb , the bill to him ! :
And arms her with the boldness of a wife :
To her allowing husband ! :
Gone already ! :
Inch-thick , knee-deep , o 'er head and :
ears a fork 'd one ! :
Go , play , boy , play : thy mother plays , and I :
Play too , but so disgraced a part , whose issue :
Will hiss me to my grave : contempt and clamour :
Will be my knell . Go , play , boy , play . :
There have been , :
Or I am much deceived , cuckolds ere now ; :
And many a man there is , even at this present , :
Now while I speak this , holds his wife by the arm , :
That little thinks she has been sluiced in 's absence :
And his pond fish 'd by his next neighbour , by :
Sir Smile , his neighbour : nay , there 's comfort in 't :
Whiles other men have gates and those gates open 'd , :
As mine , against their will . Should all despair :
That have revolted wives , the tenth of mankind :
Would hang themselves . Physic for 't there is none ; :
It is a bawdy planet , that will strike :
Where ' tis predominant ; and ' tis powerful , think it , :
From east , west , north and south : be it concluded , :
No barricado for a belly ; know 't ; :
It will let in and out the enemy :
With bag and baggage : many thousand on 's :
Have the disease , and feel 't not . How now , boy ! :
MAMILLIUS :
