I doubt not then but innocence shall make :
False accusation blush and tyranny :
Tremble at patience . You , my lord , best know , :
Who least will seem to do so , my past life :
Hath been as continent , as chaste , as true , :
As I am now unhappy ; which is more :
Than history can pattern , though devised :
And play 'd to take spectators . For behold me :
A fellow of the royal bed , which owe :
A moiety of the throne a great king 's daughter , :
The mother to a hopeful prince , here standing :
To prate and talk for life and honour ' fore :
Who please to come and hear . For life , I prize it :
As I weigh grief , which I would spare : for honour , :
'Tis a derivative from me to mine , :
And only that I stand for . I appeal :
To your own conscience , sir , before Polixenes :
Came to your court , how I was in your grace , :
How merited to be so ; since he came , :
With what encounter so uncurrent I :
Have strain 'd to appear thus : if one jot beyond :
The bound of honour , or in act or will :
That way inclining , harden 'd be the hearts :
Of all that hear me , and my near 'st of kin :
Cry fie upon my grave ! :
LEONTES :
I ne 'er heard yet :
That any of these bolder vices wanted :
Less impudence to gainsay what they did :
Than to perform it first . :
HERMIONE :
That 's true enough ; :
Through ' tis a saying , sir , not due to me . :
LEONTES :
You will not own it . :
HERMIONE :
More than mistress of :
Which comes to me in name of fault , I must not :
At all acknowledge . For Polixenes , :
With whom I am accused , I do confess :
I loved him as in honour he required , :
With such a kind of love as might become :
A lady like me , with a love even such , :
So and no other , as yourself commanded : :
Which not to have done I think had been in me :
Both disobedience and ingratitude :
To you and toward your friend , whose love had spoke , :
Even since it could speak , from an infant , freely :
That it was yours . Now , for conspiracy , :
I know not how it tastes ; though it be dish 'd :
For me to try how : all I know of it :
Is that Camillo was an honest man ; :
And why he left your court , the gods themselves , :
Wotting no more than I , are ignorant . :
LEONTES :
You knew of his departure , as you know :
What you have underta 'en to do in 's absence . :
HERMIONE :
Sir , :
You speak a language that I understand not : :
My life stands in the level of your dreams , :
Which I 'll lay down . :
LEONTES :
Your actions are my dreams ; :
You had a bastard by Polixenes , :
And I but dream 'd it . As you were past all shame , -- :
Those of your fact are so--so past all truth : :
Which to deny concerns more than avails ; for as :
Thy brat hath been cast out , like to itself , :
No father owning it , --which is , indeed , :
More criminal in thee than it , --so thou :
Shalt feel our justice , in whose easiest passage :
Look for no less than death . :
HERMIONE :
Sir , spare your threats : :
The bug which you would fright me with I seek . :
To me can life be no commodity : :
The crown and comfort of my life , your favour , :
I do give lost ; for I do feel it gone , :
But know not how it went . My second joy :
And first-fruits of my body , from his presence :
I am barr 'd , like one infectious . My third comfort :
