hedge and follow you . :
Clown :
We are blest in this man , as I may say , even blest . :
Shepherd :
Let 's before as he bids us : he was provided to do us good . :
AUTOLYCUS :
If I had a mind to be honest , I see Fortune would :
not suffer me : she drops booties in my mouth . I am :
courted now with a double occasion , gold and a means :
to do the prince my master good ; which who knows how :
that may turn back to my advancement ? I will bring :
these two moles , these blind ones , aboard him : if he :
think it fit to shore them again and that the :
complaint they have to the king concerns him :
nothing , let him call me rogue for being so far :
officious ; for I am proof against that title and :
what shame else belongs to 't . To him will I present :
them : there may be matter in it . :
Exit :
ACT V :
SCENE I. A room in LEONTES ' palace . :
CLEOMENES :
Sir , you have done enough , and have perform 'd :
A saint-like sorrow : no fault could you make , :
Which you have not redeem 'd ; indeed , paid down :
More penitence than done trespass : at the last , :
Do as the heavens have done , forget your evil ; :
With them forgive yourself . :
LEONTES :
Whilst I remember :
Her and her virtues , I cannot forget :
My blemishes in them , and so still think of :
The wrong I did myself ; which was so much , :
That heirless it hath made my kingdom and :
Destroy 'd the sweet 'st companion that e 'er man :
Bred his hopes out of . :
PAULINA :
True , too true , my lord : :
If , one by one , you wedded all the world , :
Or from the all that are took something good , :
To make a perfect woman , she you kill 'd :
Would be unparallel 'd . :
LEONTES :
I think so . Kill 'd ! :
She I kill 'd ! I did so : but thou strikest me :
Sorely , to say I did ; it is as bitter :
Upon thy tongue as in my thought : now , good now , :
Say so but seldom . :
CLEOMENES :
Not at all , good lady : :
You might have spoken a thousand things that would :
Have done the time more benefit and graced :
Your kindness better . :
PAULINA :
You are one of those :
Would have him wed again . :
DION :
If you would not so , :
You pity not the state , nor the remembrance :
Of his most sovereign name ; consider little :
What dangers , by his highness ' fail of issue , :
May drop upon his kingdom and devour :
Incertain lookers on . What were more holy :
Than to rejoice the former queen is well ? :
What holier than , for royalty 's repair , :
For present comfort and for future good , :
To bless the bed of majesty again :
With a sweet fellow to 't ? :
PAULINA :
There is none worthy , :
Respecting her that 's gone . Besides , the gods :
Will have fulfill 'd their secret purposes ; :
For has not the divine Apollo said , :
Is 't not the tenor of his oracle , :
That King Leontes shall not have an heir :
Till his lost child be found ? which that it shall , :
Is all as monstrous to our human reason :
As my Antigonus to break his grave :
And come again to me ; who , on my life , :
Did perish with the infant . ' Tis your counsel :
My lord should to the heavens be contrary , :
Oppose against their wills . :
To LEONTES :
Care not for issue ; :
The crown will find an heir : great Alexander :
Left his to the worthiest ; so his successor :
Was like to be the best . :
LEONTES :
Good Paulina , :
