AUTOLYCUS :
The king is not at the palace ; he is gone aboard a :
new ship to purge melancholy and air himself : for , :
if thou beest capable of things serious , thou must :
know the king is full of grief . :
Shepard :
So ' tis said , sir ; about his son , that should have :
married a shepherd 's daughter . :
AUTOLYCUS :
If that shepherd be not in hand-fast , let him fly : :
the curses he shall have , the tortures he shall :
feel , will break the back of man , the heart of monster . :
Clown :
Think you so , sir ? :
AUTOLYCUS :
Not he alone shall suffer what wit can make heavy :
and vengeance bitter ; but those that are germane to :
him , though removed fifty times , shall all come :
under the hangman : which though it be great pity , :
yet it is necessary . An old sheep-whistling rogue a :
ram-tender , to offer to have his daughter come into :
grace ! Some say he shall be stoned ; but that death :
is too soft for him , say I draw our throne into a :
sheep-cote ! all deaths are too few , the sharpest too easy . :
Clown :
Has the old man e 'er a son , sir , do you hear. an 't :
like you , sir ? :
AUTOLYCUS :
He has a son , who shall be flayed alive ; then :
'nointed over with honey , set on the head of a :
wasp 's nest ; then stand till he be three quarters :
and a dram dead ; then recovered again with :
aqua-vitae or some other hot infusion ; then , raw as :
he is , and in the hottest day prognostication :
proclaims , shall be be set against a brick-wall , the :
sun looking with a southward eye upon him , where he :
is to behold him with flies blown to death . But what :
talk we of these traitorly rascals , whose miseries :
are to be smiled at , their offences being so :
capital ? Tell me , for you seem to be honest plain :
men , what you have to the king : being something :
gently considered , I 'll bring you where he is :
aboard , tender your persons to his presence , :
whisper him in your behalfs ; and if it be in man :
besides the king to effect your suits , here is man :
shall do it . :
Clown :
He seems to be of great authority : close with him , :
give him gold ; and though authority be a stubborn :
bear , yet he is oft led by the nose with gold : show :
the inside of your purse to the outside of his hand , :
and no more ado . Remember ' stoned , ' and ' flayed alive . ' :
Shepherd :
An 't please you , sir , to undertake the business for :
us , here is that gold I have : I 'll make it as much :
more and leave this young man in pawn till I bring it you . :
AUTOLYCUS :
After I have done what I promised ? :
Shepherd :
Ay , sir . :
AUTOLYCUS :
Well , give me the moiety . Are you a party in this business ? :
Clown :
In some sort , sir : but though my case be a pitiful :
one , I hope I shall not be flayed out of it . :
AUTOLYCUS :
O , that 's the case of the shepherd 's son : hang him , :
he 'll be made an example . :
Clown :
Comfort , good comfort ! We must to the king and show :
our strange sights : he must know ' tis none of your :
daughter nor my sister ; we are gone else . Sir , I :
will give you as much as this old man does when the :
business is performed , and remain , as he says , your :
pawn till it be brought you . :
AUTOLYCUS :
I will trust you . Walk before toward the sea-side ; :
