This is fairy gold , boy , and ' twill prove so : up :
with 't , keep it close : home , home , the next way . :
We are lucky , boy ; and to be so still requires :
nothing but secrecy . Let my sheep go : come , good :
boy , the next way home . :
Clown :
Go you the next way with your findings . I 'll go see :
if the bear be gone from the gentleman and how much :
he hath eaten : they are never curst but when they :
are hungry : if there be any of him left , I 'll bury :
it . :
Shepherd :
That 's a good deed . If thou mayest discern by that :
which is left of him what he is , fetch me to the :
sight of him . :
Clown :
Marry , will I ; and you shall help to put him i ' the ground . :
Shepherd :
'Tis a lucky day , boy , and we 'll do good deeds on 't . :
ACT IV :
SCENE I : :
Time :
I , that please some , try all , both joy and terror :
Of good and bad , that makes and unfolds error , :
Now take upon me , in the name of Time , :
To use my wings . Impute it not a crime :
To me or my swift passage , that I slide :
O 'er sixteen years and leave the growth untried :
Of that wide gap , since it is in my power :
To o 'erthrow law and in one self-born hour :
To plant and o 'erwhelm custom . Let me pass :
The same I am , ere ancient 'st order was :
Or what is now received : I witness to :
The times that brought them in ; so shall I do :
To the freshest things now reigning and make stale :
The glistering of this present , as my tale :
Now seems to it . Your patience this allowing , :
I turn my glass and give my scene such growing :
As you had slept between : Leontes leaving , :
The effects of his fond jealousies so grieving :
That he shuts up himself , imagine me , :
Gentle spectators , that I now may be :
In fair Bohemia , and remember well , :
I mentioned a son o ' the king 's , which Florizel :
I now name to you ; and with speed so pace :
To speak of Perdita , now grown in grace :
Equal with wondering : what of her ensues :
I list not prophecy ; but let Time 's news :
Be known when ' tis brought forth . :
A shepherd 's daughter , :
And what to her adheres , which follows after , :
Is the argument of Time . Of this allow , :
If ever you have spent time worse ere now ; :
If never , yet that Time himself doth say :
He wishes earnestly you never may . :
Exit :
SCENE II . Bohemia . The palace of POLIXENES . :
POLIXENES :
I pray thee , good Camillo , be no more importunate : :
'tis a sickness denying thee any thing ; a death to :
grant this . :
CAMILLO :
It is fifteen years since I saw my country : though :
I have for the most part been aired abroad , I :
desire to lay my bones there . Besides , the penitent :
king , my master , hath sent for me ; to whose feeling :
sorrows I might be some allay , or I o 'erween to :
think so , which is another spur to my departure . :
POLIXENES :
As thou lovest me , Camillo , wipe not out the rest of :
thy services by leaving me now : the need I have of :
thee thine own goodness hath made ; better not to :
have had thee than thus to want thee : thou , having :
made me businesses which none without thee can :
sufficiently manage , must either stay to execute :
them thyself or take away with thee the very :
services thou hast done ; which if I have not enough :
