To unpath 'd waters , undream 'd shores , most certain :
To miseries enough ; no hope to help you , :
But as you shake off one to take another ; :
Nothing so certain as your anchors , who :
Do their best office , if they can but stay you :
Where you 'll be loath to be : besides you know :
Prosperity 's the very bond of love , :
Whose fresh complexion and whose heart together :
Affliction alters . :
PERDITA :
One of these is true : :
I think affliction may subdue the cheek , :
But not take in the mind . :
CAMILLO :
Yea , say you so ? :
There shall not at your father 's house these :
seven years :
Be born another such . :
FLORIZEL :
My good Camillo , :
She is as forward of her breeding as :
She is i ' the rear our birth . :
CAMILLO :
I cannot say ' tis pity :
She lacks instructions , for she seems a mistress :
To most that teach . :
PERDITA :
Your pardon , sir ; for this :
I 'll blush you thanks . :
FLORIZEL :
My prettiest Perdita ! :
But O , the thorns we stand upon ! Camillo , :
Preserver of my father , now of me , :
The medicine of our house , how shall we do ? :
We are not furnish 'd like Bohemia 's son , :
Nor shall appear in Sicilia . :
CAMILLO :
My lord , :
Fear none of this : I think you know my fortunes :
Do all lie there : it shall be so my care :
To have you royally appointed as if :
The scene you play were mine . For instance , sir , :
That you may know you shall not want , one word . :
They talk aside :
Re-enter AUTOLYCUS :
AUTOLYCUS :
Ha , ha ! what a fool Honesty is ! and Trust , his :
sworn brother , a very simple gentleman ! I have sold :
all my trumpery ; not a counterfeit stone , not a :
ribbon , glass , pomander , brooch , table-book , ballad , :
knife , tape , glove , shoe-tie , bracelet , horn-ring , :
to keep my pack from fasting : they throng who :
should buy first , as if my trinkets had been :
hallowed and brought a benediction to the buyer : :
by which means I saw whose purse was best in :
picture ; and what I saw , to my good use I :
remembered . My clown , who wants but something to :
be a reasonable man , grew so in love with the :
wenches ' song , that he would not stir his pettitoes :
till he had both tune and words ; which so drew the :
rest of the herd to me that all their other senses :
stuck in ears : you might have pinched a placket , it :
was senseless ; ' twas nothing to geld a codpiece of a :
purse ; I could have filed keys off that hung in :
chains : no hearing , no feeling , but my sir 's song , :
and admiring the nothing of it . So that in this :
time of lethargy I picked and cut most of their :
festival purses ; and had not the old man come in :
with a whoo-bub against his daughter and the king 's :
son and scared my choughs from the chaff , I had not :
left a purse alive in the whole army . :
CAMILLO , FLORIZEL , and PERDITA come forward :
CAMILLO :
Nay , but my letters , by this means being there :
So soon as you arrive , shall clear that doubt . :
FLORIZEL :
And those that you 'll procure from King Leontes-- :
CAMILLO :
Shall satisfy your father . :
PERDITA :
Happy be you ! :
All that you speak shows fair . :
CAMILLO :
Who have we here ? :
Seeing AUTOLYCUS :
We 'll make an instrument of this , omit :
Nothing may give us aid . :
AUTOLYCUS :
If they have overheard me now , why , hanging . :
CAMILLO :
