More worth than any man ; men , that she is :
The rarest of all women . :
LEONTES :
Go , Cleomenes ; :
Yourself , assisted with your honour 'd friends , :
Bring them to our embracement . Still , ' tis strange :
He thus should steal upon us . :
PAULINA :
Had our prince , :
Jewel of children , seen this hour , he had pair 'd :
Well with this lord : there was not full a month :
Between their births . :
LEONTES :
Prithee , no more ; cease ; thou know 'st :
He dies to me again when talk 'd of : sure , :
When I shall see this gentleman , thy speeches :
Will bring me to consider that which may :
Unfurnish me of reason . They are come . :
Re-enter CLEOMENES and others , with FLORIZEL and PERDITA :
Your mother was most true to wedlock , prince ; :
For she did print your royal father off , :
Conceiving you : were I but twenty-one , :
Your father 's image is so hit in you , :
His very air , that I should call you brother , :
As I did him , and speak of something wildly :
By us perform 'd before . Most dearly welcome ! :
And your fair princess , --goddess ! --O , alas ! :
I lost a couple , that ' twixt heaven and earth :
Might thus have stood begetting wonder as :
You , gracious couple , do : and then I lost-- :
All mine own folly--the society , :
Amity too , of your brave father , whom , :
Though bearing misery , I desire my life :
Once more to look on him . :
FLORIZEL :
By his command :
Have I here touch 'd Sicilia and from him :
Give you all greetings that a king , at friend , :
Can send his brother : and , but infirmity :
Which waits upon worn times hath something seized :
His wish 'd ability , he had himself :
The lands and waters ' twixt your throne and his :
Measured to look upon you ; whom he loves-- :
He bade me say so--more than all the sceptres :
And those that bear them living . :
LEONTES :
O my brother , :
Good gentleman ! the wrongs I have done thee stir :
Afresh within me , and these thy offices , :
So rarely kind , are as interpreters :
Of my behind-hand slackness . Welcome hither , :
As is the spring to the earth . And hath he too :
Exposed this paragon to the fearful usage , :
At least ungentle , of the dreadful Neptune , :
To greet a man not worth her pains , much less :
The adventure of her person ? :
FLORIZEL :
Good my lord , :
She came from Libya . :
LEONTES :
Where the warlike Smalus , :
That noble honour 'd lord , is fear 'd and loved ? :
FLORIZEL :
Most royal sir , from thence ; from him , whose daughter :
His tears proclaim 'd his , parting with her : thence , :
A prosperous south-wind friendly , we have cross 'd , :
To execute the charge my father gave me :
For visiting your highness : my best train :
I have from your Sicilian shores dismiss 'd ; :
Who for Bohemia bend , to signify :
Not only my success in Libya , sir , :
But my arrival and my wife 's in safety :
Here where we are . :
LEONTES :
The blessed gods :
Purge all infection from our air whilst you :
Do climate here ! You have a holy father , :
A graceful gentleman ; against whose person , :
So sacred as it is , I have done sin : :
For which the heavens , taking angry note , :
Have left me issueless ; and your father 's blest , :
As he from heaven merits it , with you :
Worthy his goodness . What might I have been , :
Might I a son and daughter now have look 'd on , :
Such goodly things as you ! :
Lord :
Most noble sir , :
That which I shall report will bear no credit , :
