If you first sinn 'd with us and that with us :
You did continue fault and that you slipp 'd not :
With any but with us . :
LEONTES :
Is he won yet ? :
HERMIONE :
He 'll stay my lord . :
LEONTES :
At my request he would not . :
Hermione , my dearest , thou never spokest :
To better purpose . :
HERMIONE :
Never ? :
LEONTES :
Never , but once . :
HERMIONE :
What ! have I twice said well ? when was 't before ? :
I prithee tell me ; cram 's with praise , and make 's :
As fat as tame things : one good deed dying tongueless :
Slaughters a thousand waiting upon that . :
Our praises are our wages : you may ride 's :
With one soft kiss a thousand furlongs ere :
With spur we beat an acre . But to the goal : :
My last good deed was to entreat his stay : :
What was my first ? it has an elder sister , :
Or I mistake you : O , would her name were Grace ! :
But once before I spoke to the purpose : when ? :
Nay , let me have 't ; I long . :
LEONTES :
Why , that was when :
Three crabbed months had sour 'd themselves to death , :
Ere I could make thee open thy white hand :
And clap thyself my love : then didst thou utter :
'I am yours for ever . ' :
HERMIONE :
'Tis grace indeed . :
Why , lo you now , I have spoke to the purpose twice : :
The one for ever earn 'd a royal husband ; :
The other for some while a friend . :
LEONTES :
[ Aside ] Too hot , too hot ! :
To mingle friendship far is mingling bloods . :
I have tremor cordis on me : my heart dances ; :
But not for joy ; not joy . This entertainment :
May a free face put on , derive a liberty :
From heartiness , from bounty , fertile bosom , :
And well become the agent ; ' t may , I grant ; :
But to be paddling palms and pinching fingers , :
As now they are , and making practised smiles , :
As in a looking-glass , and then to sigh , as ' twere :
The mort o ' the deer ; O , that is entertainment :
My bosom likes not , nor my brows ! Mamillius , :
Art thou my boy ? :
MAMILLIUS :
Ay , my good lord . :
LEONTES :
I ' fecks ! :
Why , that 's my bawcock . What , hast :
smutch 'd thy nose ? :
They say it is a copy out of mine . Come , captain , :
We must be neat ; not neat , but cleanly , captain : :
And yet the steer , the heifer and the calf :
Are all call 'd neat.--Still virginalling :
Upon his palm ! --How now , you wanton calf ! :
Art thou my calf ? :
MAMILLIUS :
Yes , if you will , my lord . :
LEONTES :
Thou want 'st a rough pash and the shoots that I have , :
To be full like me : yet they say we are :
Almost as like as eggs ; women say so , :
That will say anything but were they false :
As o 'er-dyed blacks , as wind , as waters , false :
As dice are to be wish 'd by one that fixes :
No bourn ' twixt his and mine , yet were it true :
To say this boy were like me . Come , sir page , :
Look on me with your welkin eye : sweet villain ! :
Most dear 'st ! my collop ! Can thy dam ? --may 't be ? -- :
Affection ! thy intention stabs the centre : :
Thou dost make possible things not so held , :
Communicatest with dreams ; --how can this be ? -- :
With what 's unreal thou coactive art , :
And fellow 'st nothing : then ' tis very credent :
Thou mayst co-join with something ; and thou dost , :
