Third Gentleman :
One of the prettiest touches of all and that which :
angled for mine eyes , caught the water though not :
the fish , was when , at the relation of the queen 's :
death , with the manner how she came to 't bravely :
confessed and lamented by the king , how :
attentiveness wounded his daughter ; till , from one :
sign of dolour to another , she did , with an ' Alas , ' :
I would fain say , bleed tears , for I am sure my :
heart wept blood . Who was most marble there changed :
colour ; some swooned , all sorrowed : if all the world :
could have seen ' t , the woe had been universal . :
First Gentleman :
Are they returned to the court ? :
Third Gentleman :
No : the princess hearing of her mother 's statue , :
which is in the keeping of Paulina , --a piece many :
years in doing and now newly performed by that rare :
Italian master , Julio Romano , who , had he himself :
eternity and could put breath into his work , would :
beguile Nature of her custom , so perfectly he is her :
ape : he so near to Hermione hath done Hermione that :
they say one would speak to her and stand in hope of :
answer : thither with all greediness of affection :
are they gone , and there they intend to sup . :
Second Gentleman :
I thought she had some great matter there in hand ; :
for she hath privately twice or thrice a day , ever :
since the death of Hermione , visited that removed :
house . Shall we thither and with our company piece :
the rejoicing ? :
First Gentleman :
Who would be thence that has the benefit of access ? :
every wink of an eye some new grace will be born : :
our absence makes us unthrifty to our knowledge . :
Let 's along . :
AUTOLYCUS :
Now , had I not the dash of my former life in me , :
would preferment drop on my head . I brought the old :
man and his son aboard the prince : told him I heard :
them talk of a fardel and I know not what : but he :
at that time , overfond of the shepherd 's daughter , :
so he then took her to be , who began to be much :
sea-sick , and himself little better , extremity of :
weather continuing , this mystery remained :
undiscovered . But ' tis all one to me ; for had I :
been the finder out of this secret , it would not :
have relished among my other discredits . :
Here come those I have done good to against my will , :
and already appearing in the blossoms of their fortune . :
Shepherd :
Come , boy ; I am past moe children , but thy sons and :
daughters will be all gentlemen born . :
Clown :
You are well met , sir . You denied to fight with me :
this other day , because I was no gentleman born . :
See you these clothes ? say you see them not and :
think me still no gentleman born : you were best say :
these robes are not gentlemen born : give me the :
lie , do , and try whether I am not now a gentleman born . :
AUTOLYCUS :
I know you are now , sir , a gentleman born . :
Clown :
Ay , and have been so any time these four hours . :
Shepherd :
And so have I , boy . :
Clown :
So you have : but I was a gentleman born before my :
father ; for the king 's son took me by the hand , and :
called me brother ; and then the two kings called my :
father brother ; and then the prince my brother and :
the princess my sister called my father father ; and :
so we wept , and there was the first gentleman-like :
tears that ever we shed . :
Shepherd :
We may live , son , to shed many more . :
Clown :
