They call him Doricles ; and boasts himself :
To have a worthy feeding : but I have it :
Upon his own report and I believe it ; :
He looks like sooth . He says he loves my daughter : :
I think so too ; for never gazed the moon :
Upon the water as he 'll stand and read :
As ' twere my daughter 's eyes : and , to be plain . :
I think there is not half a kiss to choose :
Who loves another best . :
POLIXENES :
She dances featly . :
Shepherd :
So she does any thing ; though I report it , :
That should be silent : if young Doricles :
Do light upon her , she shall bring him that :
Which he not dreams of . :
Servant :
O master , if you did but hear the pedlar at the :
door , you would never dance again after a tabour and :
pipe ; no , the bagpipe could not move you : he sings :
several tunes faster than you 'll tell money ; he :
utters them as he had eaten ballads and all men 's :
ears grew to his tunes . :
Clown :
He could never come better ; he shall come in . I :
love a ballad but even too well , if it be doleful :
matter merrily set down , or a very pleasant thing :
indeed and sung lamentably . :
Servant :
He hath songs for man or woman , of all sizes ; no :
milliner can so fit his customers with gloves : he :
has the prettiest love-songs for maids ; so without :
bawdry , which is strange ; with such delicate :
burthens of dildos and fadings , ' jump her and thump :
her ; ' and where some stretch-mouthed rascal would , :
as it were , mean mischief and break a foul gap into :
the matter , he makes the maid to answer ' Whoop , do me :
no harm , good man ; ' puts him off , slights him , with :
'Whoop , do me no harm , good man . ' :
POLIXENES :
This is a brave fellow . :
Clown :
Believe me , thou talkest of an admirable conceited :
fellow . Has he any unbraided wares ? :
Servant :
He hath ribbons of an the colours i ' the rainbow ; :
points more than all the lawyers in Bohemia can :
learnedly handle , though they come to him by the :
gross : inkles , caddisses , cambrics , lawns : why , he :
sings ' em over as they were gods or goddesses ; you :
would think a smock were a she-angel , he so chants :
to the sleeve-hand and the work about the square on 't . :
Clown :
Prithee bring him in ; and let him approach singing . :
PERDITA :
Forewarn him that he use no scurrilous words in ' s tunes . :
Exit Servant :
Clown :
You have of these pedlars , that have more in them :
than you 'ld think , sister . :
PERDITA :
Ay , good brother , or go about to think . :
AUTOLYCUS :
Lawn as white as driven snow ; :
Cyprus black as e 'er was crow ; :
Gloves as sweet as damask roses ; :
Masks for faces and for noses ; :
Bugle bracelet , necklace amber , :
Perfume for a lady 's chamber ; :
Golden quoifs and stomachers , :
For my lads to give their dears : :
Pins and poking-sticks of steel , :
What maids lack from head to heel : :
Come buy of me , come ; come buy , come buy ; :
Buy lads , or else your lasses cry : Come buy . :
Clown :
If I were not in love with Mopsa , thou shouldst take :
no money of me ; but being enthralled as I am , it :
will also be the bondage of certain ribbons and gloves . :
MOPSA :
I was promised them against the feast ; but they come :
not too late now . :
DORCAS :
He hath promised you more than that , or there be liars . :
MOPSA :
