eyes ; there was speech in their dumbness , language :
in their very gesture ; they looked as they had heard :
of a world ransomed , or one destroyed : a notable :
passion of wonder appeared in them ; but the wisest :
beholder , that knew no more but seeing , could not :
say if the importance were joy or sorrow ; but in the :
extremity of the one , it must needs be . :
Here comes a gentleman that haply knows more . :
The news , Rogero ? :
Second Gentleman :
Nothing but bonfires : the oracle is fulfilled ; the :
king 's daughter is found : such a deal of wonder is :
broken out within this hour that ballad-makers :
cannot be able to express it . :
Here comes the Lady Paulina 's steward : he can :
deliver you more . How goes it now , sir ? this news :
which is called true is so like an old tale , that :
the verity of it is in strong suspicion : has the king :
found his heir ? :
Third Gentleman :
Most true , if ever truth were pregnant by :
circumstance : that which you hear you 'll swear you :
see , there is such unity in the proofs . The mantle :
of Queen Hermione 's , her jewel about the neck of it , :
the letters of Antigonus found with it which they :
know to be his character , the majesty of the :
creature in resemblance of the mother , the affection :
of nobleness which nature shows above her breeding , :
and many other evidences proclaim her with all :
certainty to be the king 's daughter . Did you see :
the meeting of the two kings ? :
Second Gentleman :
No . :
Third Gentleman :
Then have you lost a sight , which was to be seen , :
cannot be spoken of . There might you have beheld one :
joy crown another , so and in such manner that it :
seemed sorrow wept to take leave of them , for their :
joy waded in tears . There was casting up of eyes , :
holding up of hands , with countenances of such :
distraction that they were to be known by garment , :
not by favour . Our king , being ready to leap out of :
himself for joy of his found daughter , as if that :
joy were now become a loss , cries ' O , thy mother , :
thy mother ! ' then asks Bohemia forgiveness ; then :
embraces his son-in-law ; then again worries he his :
daughter with clipping her ; now he thanks the old :
shepherd , which stands by like a weather-bitten :
conduit of many kings ' reigns . I never heard of such :
another encounter , which lames report to follow it :
and undoes description to do it . :
Second Gentleman :
What , pray you , became of Antigonus , that carried :
hence the child ? :
Third Gentleman :
Like an old tale still , which will have matter to :
rehearse , though credit be asleep and not an ear :
open . He was torn to pieces with a bear : this :
avouches the shepherd 's son ; who has not only his :
innocence , which seems much , to justify him , but a :
handkerchief and rings of his that Paulina knows . :
First Gentleman :
What became of his bark and his followers ? :
Third Gentleman :
Wrecked the same instant of their master 's death and :
in the view of the shepherd : so that all the :
instruments which aided to expose the child were :
even then lost when it was found . But O , the noble :
combat that ' twixt joy and sorrow was fought in :
Paulina ! She had one eye declined for the loss of :
her husband , another elevated that the oracle was :
fulfilled : she lifted the princess from the earth , :
and so locks her in embracing , as if she would pin :
her to her heart that she might no more be in danger :
of losing . :
First Gentleman :
The dignity of this act was worth the audience of :
