As rank as any flax-wench that puts to :
Before her troth-plight : say 't and justify 't . :
CAMILLO :
I would not be a stander-by to hear :
My sovereign mistress clouded so , without :
My present vengeance taken : ' shrew my heart , :
You never spoke what did become you less :
Than this ; which to reiterate were sin :
As deep as that , though true . :
LEONTES :
Is whispering nothing ? :
Is leaning cheek to cheek ? is meeting noses ? :
Kissing with inside lip ? stopping the career :
Of laughing with a sigh ? --a note infallible :
Of breaking honesty--horsing foot on foot ? :
Skulking in corners ? wishing clocks more swift ? :
Hours , minutes ? noon , midnight ? and all eyes :
Blind with the pin and web but theirs , theirs only , :
That would unseen be wicked ? is this nothing ? :
Why , then the world and all that 's in 't is nothing ; :
The covering sky is nothing ; Bohemia nothing ; :
My wife is nothing ; nor nothing have these nothings , :
If this be nothing . :
CAMILLO :
Good my lord , be cured :
Of this diseased opinion , and betimes ; :
For ' tis most dangerous . :
LEONTES :
Say it be , ' tis true . :
CAMILLO :
No , no , my lord . :
LEONTES :
It is ; you lie , you lie : :
I say thou liest , Camillo , and I hate thee , :
Pronounce thee a gross lout , a mindless slave , :
Or else a hovering temporizer , that :
Canst with thine eyes at once see good and evil , :
Inclining to them both : were my wife 's liver :
Infected as her life , she would not live :
The running of one glass . :
CAMILLO :
Who does infect her ? :
LEONTES :
Why , he that wears her like a medal , hanging :
About his neck , Bohemia : who , if I :
Had servants true about me , that bare eyes :
To see alike mine honour as their profits , :
Their own particular thrifts , they would do that :
Which should undo more doing : ay , and thou , :
His cupbearer , --whom I from meaner form :
Have benched and reared to worship , who mayst see :
Plainly as heaven sees earth and earth sees heaven , :
How I am galled , --mightst bespice a cup , :
To give mine enemy a lasting wink ; :
Which draught to me were cordial . :
CAMILLO :
Sir , my lord , :
I could do this , and that with no rash potion , :
But with a lingering dram that should not work :
Maliciously like poison : but I cannot :
Believe this crack to be in my dread mistress , :
So sovereignly being honourable . :
I have loved thee , -- :
LEONTES :
Make that thy question , and go rot ! :
Dost think I am so muddy , so unsettled , :
To appoint myself in this vexation , sully :
The purity and whiteness of my sheets , :
Which to preserve is sleep , which being spotted :
Is goads , thorns , nettles , tails of wasps , :
Give scandal to the blood o ' the prince my son , :
Who I do think is mine and love as mine , :
Without ripe moving to 't ? Would I do this ? :
Could man so blench ? :
CAMILLO :
I must believe you , sir : :
I do ; and will fetch off Bohemia for 't ; :
Provided that , when he 's removed , your highness :
Will take again your queen as yours at first , :
Even for your son 's sake ; and thereby for sealing :
The injury of tongues in courts and kingdoms :
Known and allied to yours . :
LEONTES :
Thou dost advise me :
Even so as I mine own course have set down : :
I 'll give no blemish to her honour , none . :
CAMILLO :
My lord , :
Go then ; and with a countenance as clear :
