Than to be pitied of thee . Prithee , bring me :
To the dead bodies of my queen and son : :
One grave shall be for both : upon them shall :
The causes of their death appear , unto :
Our shame perpetual . Once a day I 'll visit :
The chapel where they lie , and tears shed there :
Shall be my recreation : so long as nature :
Will bear up with this exercise , so long :
I daily vow to use it . Come and lead me :
Unto these sorrows . :
SCENE III . Bohemia . A desert country near the sea . :
ANTIGONUS :
Thou art perfect then , our ship hath touch 'd upon :
The deserts of Bohemia ? :
Mariner :
Ay , my lord : and fear :
We have landed in ill time : the skies look grimly :
And threaten present blusters . In my conscience , :
The heavens with that we have in hand are angry :
And frown upon ' s . :
ANTIGONUS :
Their sacred wills be done ! Go , get aboard ; :
Look to thy bark : I 'll not be long before :
I call upon thee . :
Mariner :
Make your best haste , and go not :
Too far i ' the land : ' tis like to be loud weather ; :
Besides , this place is famous for the creatures :
Of prey that keep upon 't . :
ANTIGONUS :
Go thou away : :
I 'll follow instantly . :
Mariner :
I am glad at heart :
To be so rid o ' the business . :
Exit :
ANTIGONUS :
Come , poor babe : :
I have heard , but not believed , :
the spirits o ' the dead :
May walk again : if such thing be , thy mother :
Appear 'd to me last night , for ne 'er was dream :
So like a waking . To me comes a creature , :
Sometimes her head on one side , some another ; :
I never saw a vessel of like sorrow , :
So fill 'd and so becoming : in pure white robes , :
Like very sanctity , she did approach :
My cabin where I lay ; thrice bow 'd before me , :
And gasping to begin some speech , her eyes :
Became two spouts : the fury spent , anon :
Did this break-from her : ' Good Antigonus , :
Since fate , against thy better disposition , :
Hath made thy person for the thrower-out :
Of my poor babe , according to thine oath , :
Places remote enough are in Bohemia , :
There weep and leave it crying ; and , for the babe :
Is counted lost for ever , Perdita , :
I prithee , call 't . For this ungentle business :
Put on thee by my lord , thou ne 'er shalt see :
Thy wife Paulina more . ' And so , with shrieks :
She melted into air . Affrighted much , :
I did in time collect myself and thought :
This was so and no slumber . Dreams are toys : :
Yet for this once , yea , superstitiously , :
I will be squared by this . I do believe :
Hermione hath suffer 'd death , and that :
Apollo would , this being indeed the issue :
Of King Polixenes , it should here be laid , :
Either for life or death , upon the earth :
Of its right father . Blossom , speed thee well ! :
There lie , and there thy character : there these ; :
Which may , if fortune please , both breed thee , pretty , :
And still rest thine . The storm begins ; poor wretch , :
That for thy mother 's fault art thus exposed :
To loss and what may follow ! Weep I cannot , :
But my heart bleeds ; and most accursed am I :
To be by oath enjoin 'd to this . Farewell ! :
The day frowns more and more : thou 'rt like to have :
A lullaby too rough : I never saw :
The heavens so dim by day . A savage clamour ! :
Well may I get aboard ! This is the chase : :
