Of all encertainties himself commended , :
No richer than his honour : how he glisters :
Thorough my rust ! and how his pity :
Does my deeds make the blacker ! :
Re-enter PAULINA :
PAULINA :
Woe the while ! :
O , cut my lace , lest my heart , cracking it , :
Break too . :
First Lord :
What fit is this , good lady ? :
PAULINA :
What studied torments , tyrant , hast for me ? :
What wheels ? racks ? fires ? what flaying ? boiling ? :
In leads or oils ? what old or newer torture :
Must I receive , whose every word deserves :
To taste of thy most worst ? Thy tyranny :
Together working with thy jealousies , :
Fancies too weak for boys , too green and idle :
For girls of nine , O , think what they have done :
And then run mad indeed , stark mad ! for all :
Thy by-gone fooleries were but spices of it . :
That thou betray 'dst Polixenes , ' twas nothing ; :
That did but show thee , of a fool , inconstant :
And damnable ingrateful : nor was 't much , :
Thou wouldst have poison 'd good Camillo 's honour , :
To have him kill a king : poor trespasses , :
More monstrous standing by : whereof I reckon :
The casting forth to crows thy baby-daughter :
To be or none or little ; though a devil :
Would have shed water out of fire ere done 't : :
Nor is 't directly laid to thee , the death :
Of the young prince , whose honourable thoughts , :
Thoughts high for one so tender , cleft the heart :
That could conceive a gross and foolish sire :
Blemish 'd his gracious dam : this is not , no , :
Laid to thy answer : but the last , --O lords , :
When I have said , cry ' woe ! ' the queen , the queen , :
The sweet 'st , dear 'st creature 's dead , :
and vengeance for 't :
Not dropp 'd down yet . :
First Lord :
The higher powers forbid ! :
PAULINA :
I say she 's dead ; I 'll swear 't . If word nor oath :
Prevail not , go and see : if you can bring :
Tincture or lustre in her lip , her eye , :
Heat outwardly or breath within , I 'll serve you :
As I would do the gods . But , O thou tyrant ! :
Do not repent these things , for they are heavier :
Than all thy woes can stir ; therefore betake thee :
To nothing but despair . A thousand knees :
Ten thousand years together , naked , fasting , :
Upon a barren mountain and still winter :
In storm perpetual , could not move the gods :
To look that way thou wert . :
LEONTES :
Go on , go on :
Thou canst not speak too much ; I have deserved :
All tongues to talk their bitterest . :
First Lord :
Say no more : :
Howe 'er the business goes , you have made fault :
I ' the boldness of your speech . :
PAULINA :
I am sorry for 't : :
All faults I make , when I shall come to know them , :
I do repent . Alas ! I have show 'd too much :
The rashness of a woman : he is touch 'd :
To the noble heart . What 's gone and what 's past help :
Should be past grief : do not receive affliction :
At my petition ; I beseech you , rather :
Let me be punish 'd , that have minded you :
Of what you should forget . Now , good my liege :
Sir , royal sir , forgive a foolish woman : :
The love I bore your queen--lo , fool again ! -- :
I 'll speak of her no more , nor of your children ; :
I 'll not remember you of my own lord , :
Who is lost too : take your patience to you , :
And I 'll say nothing . :
LEONTES :
Thou didst speak but well :
