PAULINA :
I pray you , do not push me ; I 'll be gone . :
Look to your babe , my lord ; ' tis yours : :
Jove send her :
A better guiding spirit ! What needs these hands ? :
You , that are thus so tender o 'er his follies , :
Will never do him good , not one of you . :
So , so : farewell ; we are gone . :
Exit :
LEONTES :
Thou , traitor , hast set on thy wife to this . :
My child ? away with 't ! Even thou , that hast :
A heart so tender o 'er it , take it hence :
And see it instantly consumed with fire ; :
Even thou and none but thou . Take it up straight : :
Within this hour bring me word ' tis done , :
And by good testimony , or I 'll seize thy life , :
With what thou else call 'st thine . If thou refuse :
And wilt encounter with my wrath , say so ; :
The bastard brains with these my proper hands :
Shall I dash out . Go , take it to the fire ; :
For thou set 'st on thy wife . :
ANTIGONUS :
I did not , sir : :
These lords , my noble fellows , if they please , :
Can clear me in 't . :
Lords :
We can : my royal liege , :
He is not guilty of her coming hither . :
LEONTES :
You 're liars all . :
First Lord :
Beseech your highness , give us better credit : :
We have always truly served you , and beseech you :
So to esteem of us , and on our knees we beg , :
As recompense of our dear services :
Past and to come , that you do change this purpose , :
Which being so horrible , so bloody , must :
Lead on to some foul issue : we all kneel . :
LEONTES :
I am a feather for each wind that blows : :
Shall I live on to see this bastard kneel :
And call me father ? better burn it now :
Than curse it then . But be it ; let it live . :
It shall not neither . You , sir , come you hither ; :
You that have been so tenderly officious :
With Lady Margery , your midwife there , :
To save this bastard 's life , --for ' tis a bastard , :
So sure as this beard 's grey , :
--what will you adventure :
To save this brat 's life ? :
ANTIGONUS :
Any thing , my lord , :
That my ability may undergo :
And nobleness impose : at least thus much : :
I 'll pawn the little blood which I have left :
To save the innocent : any thing possible . :
LEONTES :
It shall be possible . Swear by this sword :
Thou wilt perform my bidding . :
ANTIGONUS :
I will , my lord . :
LEONTES :
Mark and perform it , see 'st thou ! for the fail :
Of any point in 't shall not only be :
Death to thyself but to thy lewd-tongued wife , :
Whom for this time we pardon . We enjoin thee , :
As thou art liege-man to us , that thou carry :
This female bastard hence and that thou bear it :
To some remote and desert place quite out :
Of our dominions , and that there thou leave it , :
Without more mercy , to its own protection :
And favour of the climate . As by strange fortune :
It came to us , I do in justice charge thee , :
On thy soul 's peril and thy body 's torture , :
That thou commend it strangely to some place :
Where chance may nurse or end it . Take it up . :
ANTIGONUS :
I swear to do this , though a present death :
Had been more merciful . Come on , poor babe : :
Some powerful spirit instruct the kites and ravens :
To be thy nurses ! Wolves and bears , they say :
Casting their savageness aside have done :
Like offices of pity . Sir , be prosperous :
