thankful to thee shall be my study , and my profit :
therein the heaping friendships . Of that fatal :
country , Sicilia , prithee speak no more ; whose very :
naming punishes me with the remembrance of that :
penitent , as thou callest him , and reconciled king , :
my brother ; whose loss of his most precious queen :
and children are even now to be afresh lamented . :
Say to me , when sawest thou the Prince Florizel , my :
son ? Kings are no less unhappy , their issue not :
being gracious , than they are in losing them when :
they have approved their virtues . :
CAMILLO :
Sir , it is three days since I saw the prince . What :
his happier affairs may be , are to me unknown : but I :
have missingly noted , he is of late much retired :
from court and is less frequent to his princely :
exercises than formerly he hath appeared . :
POLIXENES :
I have considered so much , Camillo , and with some :
care ; so far that I have eyes under my service which :
look upon his removedness ; from whom I have this :
intelligence , that he is seldom from the house of a :
most homely shepherd ; a man , they say , that from :
very nothing , and beyond the imagination of his :
neighbours , is grown into an unspeakable estate . :
CAMILLO :
I have heard , sir , of such a man , who hath a :
daughter of most rare note : the report of her is :
extended more than can be thought to begin from such a cottage . :
POLIXENES :
That 's likewise part of my intelligence ; but , I :
fear , the angle that plucks our son thither . Thou :
shalt accompany us to the place ; where we will , not :
appearing what we are , have some question with the :
shepherd ; from whose simplicity I think it not :
uneasy to get the cause of my son 's resort thither . :
Prithee , be my present partner in this business , and :
lay aside the thoughts of Sicilia . :
CAMILLO :
I willingly obey your command . :
POLIXENES :
My best Camillo ! We must disguise ourselves . :
SCENE III . A road near the Shepherd 's cottage . :
AUTOLYCUS :
When daffodils begin to peer , :
With heigh ! the doxy over the dale , :
Why , then comes in the sweet o ' the year ; :
For the red blood reigns in the winter 's pale . :
The white sheet bleaching on the hedge , :
With heigh ! the sweet birds , O , how they sing ! :
Doth set my pugging tooth on edge ; :
For a quart of ale is a dish for a king . :
The lark , that tirra-lyra chants , :
With heigh ! with heigh ! the thrush and the jay , :
Are summer songs for me and my aunts , :
While we lie tumbling in the hay . :
I have served Prince Florizel and in my time :
wore three-pile ; but now I am out of service : :
But shall I go mourn for that , my dear ? :
The pale moon shines by night : :
And when I wander here and there , :
I then do most go right . :
If tinkers may have leave to live , :
And bear the sow-skin budget , :
Then my account I well may , give , :
And in the stocks avouch it . :
My traffic is sheets ; when the kite builds , look to :
lesser linen . My father named me Autolycus ; who :
being , as I am , littered under Mercury , was likewise :
a snapper-up of unconsidered trifles . With die and :
drab I purchased this caparison , and my revenue is :
the silly cheat . Gallows and knock are too powerful :
on the highway : beating and hanging are terrors to :
me : for the life to come , I sleep out the thought :
of it . A prize ! a prize ! :
Clown :
