Exit , pursued by a bear :
Shepherd :
I would there were no age between sixteen and :
three-and-twenty , or that youth would sleep out the :
rest ; for there is nothing in the between but :
getting wenches with child , wronging the ancientry , :
stealing , fighting--Hark you now ! Would any but :
these boiled brains of nineteen and two-and-twenty :
hunt this weather ? They have scared away two of my :
best sheep , which I fear the wolf will sooner find :
than the master : if any where I have them , ' tis by :
the seaside , browsing of ivy . Good luck , an 't be thy :
will what have we here ! Mercy on ' s , a barne a very :
pretty barne ! A boy or a child , I wonder ? A :
pretty one ; a very pretty one : sure , some ' scape : :
though I am not bookish , yet I can read :
waiting-gentlewoman in the ' scape . This has been :
some stair-work , some trunk-work , some :
behind-door-work : they were warmer that got this :
than the poor thing is here . I 'll take it up for :
pity : yet I 'll tarry till my son come ; he hallooed :
but even now . Whoa , ho , hoa ! :
Clown :
Hilloa , loa ! :
Shepherd :
What , art so near ? If thou 'lt see a thing to talk :
on when thou art dead and rotten , come hither . What :
ailest thou , man ? :
Clown :
I have seen two such sights , by sea and by land ! :
but I am not to say it is a sea , for it is now the :
sky : betwixt the firmament and it you cannot thrust :
a bodkin 's point . :
Shepherd :
Why , boy , how is it ? :
Clown :
I would you did but see how it chafes , how it rages , :
how it takes up the shore ! but that 's not the :
point . O , the most piteous cry of the poor souls ! :
sometimes to see ' em , and not to see ' em ; now the :
ship boring the moon with her main-mast , and anon :
swallowed with yest and froth , as you 'ld thrust a :
cork into a hogshead . And then for the :
land-service , to see how the bear tore out his :
shoulder-bone ; how he cried to me for help and said :
his name was Antigonus , a nobleman . But to make an :
end of the ship , to see how the sea flap-dragoned :
it : but , first , how the poor souls roared , and the :
sea mocked them ; and how the poor gentleman roared :
and the bear mocked him , both roaring louder than :
the sea or weather . :
Shepherd :
Name of mercy , when was this , boy ? :
Clown :
Now , now : I have not winked since I saw these :
sights : the men are not yet cold under water , nor :
the bear half dined on the gentleman : he 's at it :
now . :
Shepherd :
Would I had been by , to have helped the old man ! :
Clown :
I would you had been by the ship side , to have :
helped her : there your charity would have lacked footing . :
Shepherd :
Heavy matters ! heavy matters ! but look thee here , :
boy . Now bless thyself : thou mettest with things :
dying , I with things newborn . Here 's a sight for :
thee ; look thee , a bearing-cloth for a squire 's :
child ! look thee here ; take up , take up , boy ; :
open 't . So , let 's see : it was told me I should be :
rich by the fairies . This is some changeling : :
open 't . What 's within , boy ? :
Clown :
You 're a made old man : if the sins of your youth :
are forgiven you , you 're well to live . Gold ! all gold ! :
