Which on my faith deserves high speech , and straight :
The shrug , the hum or ha , these petty brands :
That calumny doth use--O , I am out-- :
That mercy does , for calumny will sear :
Virtue itself : these shrugs , these hums and ha 's , :
When you have said ' she 's goodly , ' come between :
Ere you can say ' she 's honest : ' but be ' t known , :
From him that has most cause to grieve it should be , :
She 's an adulteress . :
HERMIONE :
Should a villain say so , :
The most replenish 'd villain in the world , :
He were as much more villain : you , my lord , :
Do but mistake . :
LEONTES :
You have mistook , my lady , :
Polixenes for Leontes : O thou thing ! :
Which I 'll not call a creature of thy place , :
Lest barbarism , making me the precedent , :
Should a like language use to all degrees :
And mannerly distinguishment leave out :
Betwixt the prince and beggar : I have said :
She 's an adulteress ; I have said with whom : :
More , she 's a traitor and Camillo is :
A federary with her , and one that knows :
What she should shame to know herself :
But with her most vile principal , that she 's :
A bed-swerver , even as bad as those :
That vulgars give bold 'st titles , ay , and privy :
To this their late escape . :
HERMIONE :
No , by my life . :
Privy to none of this . How will this grieve you , :
When you shall come to clearer knowledge , that :
You thus have publish 'd me ! Gentle my lord , :
You scarce can right me throughly then to say :
You did mistake . :
LEONTES :
No ; if I mistake :
In those foundations which I build upon , :
The centre is not big enough to bear :
A school-boy 's top . Away with her ! to prison ! :
He who shall speak for her is afar off guilty :
But that he speaks . :
HERMIONE :
There 's some ill planet reigns : :
I must be patient till the heavens look :
With an aspect more favourable . Good my lords , :
I am not prone to weeping , as our sex :
Commonly are ; the want of which vain dew :
Perchance shall dry your pities : but I have :
That honourable grief lodged here which burns :
Worse than tears drown : beseech you all , my lords , :
With thoughts so qualified as your charities :
Shall best instruct you , measure me ; and so :
The king 's will be perform 'd ! :
LEONTES :
Shall I be heard ? :
HERMIONE :
Who is 't that goes with me ? Beseech your highness , :
My women may be with me ; for you see :
My plight requires it . Do not weep , good fools ; :
There is no cause : when you shall know your mistress :
Has deserved prison , then abound in tears :
As I come out : this action I now go on :
Is for my better grace . Adieu , my lord : :
I never wish 'd to see you sorry ; now :
I trust I shall . My women , come ; you have leave . :
LEONTES :
Go , do our bidding ; hence ! :
Exit HERMIONE , guarded ; with Ladies :
First Lord :
Beseech your highness , call the queen again . :
ANTIGONUS :
Be certain what you do , sir , lest your justice :
Prove violence ; in the which three great ones suffer , :
Yourself , your queen , your son . :
First Lord :
For her , my lord , :
I dare my life lay down and will do 't , sir , :
Please you to accept it , that the queen is spotless :
I ' the eyes of heaven and to you ; I mean , :
In this which you accuse her . :
ANTIGONUS :
If it prove :
