Music :
'Tis time ; descend ; be stone no more ; approach ; :
Strike all that look upon with marvel . Come , :
I 'll fill your grave up : stir , nay , come away , :
Bequeath to death your numbness , for from him :
Dear life redeems you . You perceive she stirs : :
HERMIONE comes down :
Start not ; her actions shall be holy as :
You hear my spell is lawful : do not shun her :
Until you see her die again ; for then :
You kill her double . Nay , present your hand : :
When she was young you woo 'd her ; now in age :
Is she become the suitor ? :
LEONTES :
O , she 's warm ! :
If this be magic , let it be an art :
Lawful as eating . :
POLIXENES :
She embraces him . :
CAMILLO :
She hangs about his neck : :
If she pertain to life let her speak too . :
POLIXENES :
Ay , and make 't manifest where she has lived , :
Or how stolen from the dead . :
PAULINA :
That she is living , :
Were it but told you , should be hooted at :
Like an old tale : but it appears she lives , :
Though yet she speak not . Mark a little while . :
Please you to interpose , fair madam : kneel :
And pray your mother 's blessing . Turn , good lady ; :
Our Perdita is found . :
HERMIONE :
You gods , look down :
And from your sacred vials pour your graces :
Upon my daughter 's head ! Tell me , mine own . :
Where hast thou been preserved ? where lived ? how found :
Thy father 's court ? for thou shalt hear that I , :
Knowing by Paulina that the oracle :
Gave hope thou wast in being , have preserved :
Myself to see the issue . :
PAULINA :
There 's time enough for that ; :
Lest they desire upon this push to trouble :
Your joys with like relation . Go together , :
You precious winners all ; your exultation :
Partake to every one . I , an old turtle , :
Will wing me to some wither 'd bough and there :
My mate , that 's never to be found again , :
Lament till I am lost . :
LEONTES :
O , peace , Paulina ! :
Thou shouldst a husband take by my consent , :
As I by thine a wife : this is a match , :
And made between 's by vows . Thou hast found mine ; :
But how , is to be question 'd ; for I saw her , :
As I thought , dead , and have in vain said many :
A prayer upon her grave . I 'll not seek far-- :
For him , I partly know his mind--to find thee :
An honourable husband . Come , Camillo , :
And take her by the hand , whose worth and honesty :
Is richly noted and here justified :
By us , a pair of kings . Let 's from this place . :
What ! look upon my brother : both your pardons , :
That e 'er I put between your holy looks :
My ill suspicion . This is your son-in-law , :
And son unto the king , who , heavens directing , :
Is troth-plight to your daughter . Good Paulina , :
Lead us from hence , where we may leisurely :
Each one demand an answer to his part :
Perform 'd in this wide gap of time since first :
