OCTAVIA : O my good lord , Believe not all ; or , if you must believe , Stomach not all . A more unhappy lady , If this division chance , ne 'er stood between , Praying for both parts : The good gods me presently , When I shall pray , ' O bless my lord and husband ! ' Undo that prayer , by crying out as loud , ' O , bless my brother ! ' Husband win , win brother , Prays , and destroys the prayer ; no midway ' Twixt these extremes at all .
MARK ANTONY : Gentle Octavia , Let your best love draw to that point , which seeks Best to preserve it : if I lose mine honour , I lose myself : better I were not yours Than yours so branchless . But , as you requested , Yourself shall go between ' s : the mean time , lady , I 'll raise the preparation of a war Shall stain your brother : make your soonest haste ; So your desires are yours .
OCTAVIA : Thanks to my lord . The Jove of power make me most weak , most weak , Your reconciler ! Wars ' twixt you twain would be As if the world should cleave , and that slain men Should solder up the rift .
MARK ANTONY : When it appears to you where this begins , Turn your displeasure that way : for our faults Can never be so equal , that your love Can equally move with them . Provide your going ; Choose your own company , and command what cost Your heart has mind to . Enter DOMITIUS ENOBARBUS and EROS , meeting
DOMITIUS ENOBARBUS : How now , friend Eros !
EROS : There 's strange news come , sir .
DOMITIUS ENOBARBUS : What , man ?
EROS : Caesar and Lepidus have made wars upon Pompey .
DOMITIUS ENOBARBUS : This is old : what is the success ?
EROS : Caesar , having made use of him in the wars ' gainst Pompey , presently denied him rivality ; would not let him partake in the glory of the action : and not resting here , accuses him of letters he had formerly wrote to Pompey ; upon his own appeal , seizes him : so the poor third is up , till death enlarge his confine .
DOMITIUS ENOBARBUS : Then , world , thou hast a pair of chaps , no more ; And throw between them all the food thou hast , They 'll grind the one the other . Where 's Antony ?
EROS : He 's walking in the garden--thus ; and spurns The rush that lies before him ; cries , ' Fool Lepidus ! ' And threats the throat of that his officer That murder 'd Pompey .
DOMITIUS ENOBARBUS : Our great navy 's rigg 'd .
EROS : For Italy and Caesar . More , Domitius ; My lord desires you presently : my news I might have told hereafter .
DOMITIUS ENOBARBUS : ' Twill be naught : But let it be . Bring me to Antony .
EROS : Come , sir . Enter OCTAVIUS CAESAR , AGRIPPA , and MECAENAS
OCTAVIUS CAESAR : Contemning Rome , he has done all this , and more , In Alexandria : here 's the manner of ' t : I ' the market-place , on a tribunal silver 'd , Cleopatra and himself in chairs of gold Were publicly enthroned : at the feet sat Caesarion , whom they call my father 's son , And all the unlawful issue that their lust Since then hath made between them . Unto her He gave the stablishment of Egypt ; made her Of lower Syria , Cyprus , Lydia , Absolute queen .
MECAENAS : This in the public eye ?
OCTAVIUS CAESAR : I ' the common show-place , where they exercise . His sons he there proclaim 'd the kings of kings : Great Media , Parthia , and Armenia . He gave to Alexander ; to Ptolemy he assign 'd Syria , Cilicia , and Phoenicia : she In the habiliments of the goddess Isis That day appear 'd ; and oft before gave audience , As ' tis reported , so .
MECAENAS : Let Rome be thus Inform 'd .
AGRIPPA : Who , queasy with his insolence Already , will their good thoughts call from him .
