CLEOPATRA : We will not look upon him : go with us . Enter MARK ANTONY with a Messenger and Attendants
Messenger : Fulvia thy wife first came into the field .
MARK ANTONY : Against my brother Lucius ?
Messenger : Ay : But soon that war had end , and the time 's state Made friends of them , joining their force ' gainst Caesar ; Whose better issue in the war , from Italy , Upon the first encounter , drave them .
MARK ANTONY : Well , what worst ?
Messenger : The nature of bad news infects the teller .
MARK ANTONY : When it concerns the fool or coward . On : Things that are past are done with me . ' Tis thus : Who tells me true , though in his tale lie death , I hear him as he flatter 'd .
Messenger : Labienus-- This is stiff news--hath , with his Parthian force , Extended Asia from Euphrates ; His conquering banner shook from Syria To Lydia and to Ionia ; Whilst--
MARK ANTONY : Antony , thou wouldst say , --
Messenger : O , my lord !
MARK ANTONY : Speak to me home , mince not the general tongue : Name Cleopatra as she is call 'd in Rome ; Rail thou in Fulvia 's phrase ; and taunt my faults With such full licence as both truth and malice Have power to utter . O , then we bring forth weeds , When our quick minds lie still ; and our ills told us Is as our earing . Fare thee well awhile .
Messenger : At your noble pleasure . Exit
MARK ANTONY : From Sicyon , ho , the news ! Speak there !
First Attendant : The man from Sicyon , --is there such an one ?
Second Attendant : He stays upon your will .
MARK ANTONY : Let him appear . These strong Egyptian fetters I must break , Or lose myself in dotage . Enter another Messenger What are you ?
Second Messenger : Fulvia thy wife is dead .
MARK ANTONY : Where died she ?
Second Messenger : In Sicyon : Her length of sickness , with what else more serious Importeth thee to know , this bears . Gives a letter
MARK ANTONY : Forbear me . Exit Second Messenger There 's a great spirit gone ! Thus did I desire it : What our contempt doth often hurl from us , We wish it ours again ; the present pleasure , By revolution lowering , does become The opposite of itself : she 's good , being gone ; The hand could pluck her back that shoved her on . I must from this enchanting queen break off : Ten thousand harms , more than the ills I know , My idleness doth hatch . How now ! Enobarbus ! Re-enter DOMITIUS ENOBARBUS
DOMITIUS ENOBARBUS : What 's your pleasure , sir ?
MARK ANTONY : I must with haste from hence .
DOMITIUS ENOBARBUS : Why , then , we kill all our women : we see how mortal an unkindness is to them ; if they suffer our departure , death 's the word .
MARK ANTONY : I must be gone .
DOMITIUS ENOBARBUS : Under a compelling occasion , let women die ; it were pity to cast them away for nothing ; though , between them and a great cause , they should be esteemed nothing . Cleopatra , catching but the least noise of this , dies instantly ; I have seen her die twenty times upon far poorer moment : I do think there is mettle in death , which commits some loving act upon her , she hath such a celerity in dying .
MARK ANTONY : She is cunning past man 's thought . Exit ALEXAS
DOMITIUS ENOBARBUS : Alack , sir , no ; her passions are made of nothing but the finest part of pure love : we cannot call her winds and waters sighs and tears ; they are greater storms and tempests than almanacs can report : this cannot be cunning in her ; if it be , she makes a shower of rain as well as Jove .
MARK ANTONY : Would I had never seen her .
DOMITIUS ENOBARBUS : O , sir , you had then left unseen a wonderful piece of work ; which not to have been blest withal would have discredited your travel .
