CHARMIAN : O that brave Caesar !
CLEOPATRA : Be choked with such another emphasis ! Say , the brave Antony .
CHARMIAN : The valiant Caesar !
CLEOPATRA : By Isis , I will give thee bloody teeth , If thou with Caesar paragon again My man of men .
CHARMIAN : By your most gracious pardon , I sing but after you .
CLEOPATRA : My salad days , When I was green in judgment : cold in blood , To say as I said then ! But , come , away ; Get me ink and paper : He shall have every day a several greeting , Or I 'll unpeople Egypt . Enter POMPEY , MENECRATES , and MENAS , in warlike manner
POMPEY : If the great gods be just , they shall assist The deeds of justest men .
MENECRATES : Know , worthy Pompey , That what they do delay , they not deny .
POMPEY : Whiles we are suitors to their throne , decays The thing we sue for .
MENECRATES : We , ignorant of ourselves , Beg often our own harms , which the wise powers Deny us for our good ; so find we profit By losing of our prayers .
POMPEY : I shall do well : The people love me , and the sea is mine ; My powers are crescent , and my auguring hope Says it will come to the full . Mark Antony In Egypt sits at dinner , and will make No wars without doors : Caesar gets money where He loses hearts : Lepidus flatters both , Of both is flatter 'd ; but he neither loves , Nor either cares for him .
MENAS : Caesar and Lepidus Are in the field : a mighty strength they carry .
POMPEY : Where have you this ? ' tis false .
MENAS : From Silvius , sir .
POMPEY : He dreams : I know they are in Rome together , Looking for Antony . But all the charms of love , Salt Cleopatra , soften thy waned lip ! Let witchcraft join with beauty , lust with both ! Tie up the libertine in a field of feasts , Keep his brain fuming ; Epicurean cooks Sharpen with cloyless sauce his appetite ; That sleep and feeding may prorogue his honour Even till a Lethe 'd dulness ! Enter VARRIUS How now , Varrius !
VARRIUS : This is most certain that I shall deliver : Mark Antony is every hour in Rome Expected : since he went from Egypt ' tis A space for further travel .
POMPEY : I could have given less matter A better ear . Menas , I did not think This amorous surfeiter would have donn 'd his helm For such a petty war : his soldiership Is twice the other twain : but let us rear The higher our opinion , that our stirring Can from the lap of Egypt 's widow pluck The ne 'er-lust-wearied Antony .
MENAS : I cannot hope Caesar and Antony shall well greet together : His wife that 's dead did trespasses to Caesar ; His brother warr 'd upon him ; although , I think , Not moved by Antony .
POMPEY : I know not , Menas , How lesser enmities may give way to greater . Were 't not that we stand up against them all , ' Twere pregnant they should square between themselves ; For they have entertained cause enough To draw their swords : but how the fear of us May cement their divisions and bind up The petty difference , we yet not know . Be 't as our gods will have 't ! It only stands Our lives upon to use our strongest hands . Come , Menas . Enter DOMITIUS ENOBARBUS and LEPIDUS
LEPIDUS : Good Enobarbus , ' tis a worthy deed , And shall become you well , to entreat your captain To soft and gentle speech .
DOMITIUS ENOBARBUS : I shall entreat him To answer like himself : if Caesar move him , Let Antony look over Caesar 's head And speak as loud as Mars . By Jupiter , Were I the wearer of Antonius ' beard , I would not shave 't to-day .
LEPIDUS : ' Tis not a time For private stomaching .
DOMITIUS ENOBARBUS : Every time Serves for the matter that is then born in 't .
