OCTAVIUS CAESAR : Which is the Queen of Egypt ?
DOLABELLA : It is the emperor , madam . CLEOPATRA kneels
OCTAVIUS CAESAR : Arise , you shall not kneel : I pray you , rise ; rise , Egypt .
CLEOPATRA : Sir , the gods Will have it thus ; my master and my lord I must obey .
OCTAVIUS CAESAR : Take to you no hard thoughts : The record of what injuries you did us , Though written in our flesh , we shall remember As things but done by chance .
CLEOPATRA : Sole sir o ' the world , I cannot project mine own cause so well To make it clear ; but do confess I have Been laden with like frailties which before Have often shamed our sex .
OCTAVIUS CAESAR : Cleopatra , know , We will extenuate rather than enforce : If you apply yourself to our intents , Which towards you are most gentle , you shall find A benefit in this change ; but if you seek To lay on me a cruelty , by taking Antony 's course , you shall bereave yourself Of my good purposes , and put your children To that destruction which I 'll guard them from , If thereon you rely . I 'll take my leave .
CLEOPATRA : And may , through all the world : ' tis yours ; and we , Your scutcheons and your signs of conquest , shall Hang in what place you please . Here , my good lord .
OCTAVIUS CAESAR : You shall advise me in all for Cleopatra .
CLEOPATRA : This is the brief of money , plate , and jewels , I am possess 'd of : ' tis exactly valued ; Not petty things admitted . Where 's Seleucus ?
SELEUCUS : Here , madam .
CLEOPATRA : This is my treasurer : let him speak , my lord , Upon his peril , that I have reserved To myself nothing . Speak the truth , Seleucus .
SELEUCUS : Madam , I had rather seal my lips , than , to my peril , Speak that which is not .
CLEOPATRA : What have I kept back ?
SELEUCUS : Enough to purchase what you have made known .
OCTAVIUS CAESAR : Nay , blush not , Cleopatra ; I approve Your wisdom in the deed .
CLEOPATRA : See , Caesar ! O , behold , How pomp is follow 'd ! mine will now be yours ; And , should we shift estates , yours would be mine . The ingratitude of this Seleucus does Even make me wild : O slave , of no more trust Than love that 's hired ! What , goest thou back ? thou shalt Go back , I warrant thee ; but I 'll catch thine eyes , Though they had wings : slave , soulless villain , dog ! O rarely base !
OCTAVIUS CAESAR : Good queen , let us entreat you .
CLEOPATRA : O Caesar , what a wounding shame is this , That thou , vouchsafing here to visit me , Doing the honour of thy lordliness To one so meek , that mine own servant should Parcel the sum of my disgraces by Addition of his envy ! Say , good Caesar , That I some lady trifles have reserved , Immoment toys , things of such dignity As we greet modern friends withal ; and say , Some nobler token I have kept apart For Livia and Octavia , to induce Their mediation ; must I be unfolded With one that I have bred ? The gods ! it smites me Beneath the fall I have . To SELEUCUS Prithee , go hence ; Or I shall show the cinders of my spirits Through the ashes of my chance : wert thou a man , Thou wouldst have mercy on me .
OCTAVIUS CAESAR : Forbear , Seleucus . Exit SELEUCUS
CLEOPATRA : Be it known , that we , the greatest , are misthought For things that others do ; and , when we fall , We answer others ' merits in our name , Are therefore to be pitied .
