Third Soldier : Come on , then ; He may recover yet . Enter MARK ANTONY and SCARUS , with their Army
MARK ANTONY : Their preparation is to-day by sea ; We please them not by land .
SCARUS : For both , my lord .
MARK ANTONY : I would they 'ld fight i ' the fire or i ' the air ; We 'ld fight there too . But this it is ; our foot Upon the hills adjoining to the city Shall stay with us : order for sea is given ; They have put forth the haven Where their appointment we may best discover , And look on their endeavour . Enter OCTAVIUS CAESAR , and his Army
OCTAVIUS CAESAR : But being charged , we will be still by land , Which , as I take 't , we shall ; for his best force Is forth to man his galleys . To the vales , And hold our best advantage . Enter MARK ANTONY and SCARUS
MARK ANTONY : Yet they are not join 'd : where yond pine does stand , I shall discover all : I 'll bring thee word Straight , how ' tis like to go . Exit
SCARUS : Swallows have built In Cleopatra 's sails their nests : the augurers Say they know not , they cannot tell ; look grimly , And dare not speak their knowledge . Antony Is valiant , and dejected ; and , by starts , His fretted fortunes give him hope , and fear , Of what he has , and has not . Alarum afar off , as at a sea-fight Re-enter MARK ANTONY
MARK ANTONY : All is lost ; This foul Egyptian hath betrayed me : My fleet hath yielded to the foe ; and yonder They cast their caps up and carouse together Like friends long lost . Triple-turn 'd whore ! ' tis thou Hast sold me to this novice ; and my heart Makes only wars on thee . Bid them all fly ; For when I am revenged upon my charm , I have done all . Bid them all fly ; begone . Exit SCARUS O sun , thy uprise shall I see no more : Fortune and Antony part here ; even here Do we shake hands . All come to this ? The hearts That spaniel 'd me at heels , to whom I gave Their wishes , do discandy , melt their sweets On blossoming Caesar ; and this pine is bark 'd , That overtopp 'd them all . Betray 'd I am : O this false soul of Egypt ! this grave charm , -- Whose eye beck 'd forth my wars , and call 'd them home ; Whose bosom was my crownet , my chief end , -- Like a right gipsy , hath , at fast and loose , Beguiled me to the very heart of loss . What , Eros , Eros ! Enter CLEOPATRA Ah , thou spell ! Avaunt !
CLEOPATRA : Why is my lord enraged against his love ?
MARK ANTONY : Vanish , or I shall give thee thy deserving , And blemish Caesar 's triumph . Let him take thee , And hoist thee up to the shouting plebeians : Follow his chariot , like the greatest spot Of all thy sex ; most monster-like , be shown For poor 'st diminutives , for doits ; and let Patient Octavia plough thy visage up With her prepared nails . Exit CLEOPATRA ' Tis well thou 'rt gone , If it be well to live ; but better ' twere Thou fell 'st into my fury , for one death Might have prevented many . Eros , ho ! The shirt of Nessus is upon me : teach me , Alcides , thou mine ancestor , thy rage : Let me lodge Lichas on the horns o ' the moon ; And with those hands , that grasp 'd the heaviest club , Subdue my worthiest self . The witch shall die : To the young Roman boy she hath sold me , and I fall Under this plot ; she dies for 't . Eros , ho ! Exit Enter CLEOPATRA , CHARMIAN , IRAS , and MARDIAN
CLEOPATRA : Help me , my women ! O , he is more mad Than Telamon for his shield ; the boar of Thessaly Was never so emboss 'd .
