CLEOPATRA : To the monument ! Mardian , go tell him I have slain myself ; Say , that the last I spoke was ' Antony , ' And word it , prithee , piteously : hence , Mardian , And bring me how he takes my death . To the monument ! Enter MARK ANTONY and EROS
MARK ANTONY : Eros , thou yet behold 'st me ?
EROS : Ay , noble lord .
MARK ANTONY : Sometimes we see a cloud that 's dragonish ; A vapour sometime like a bear or lion , A tower 'd citadel , a pendent rock , A forked mountain , or blue promontory With trees upon 't , that nod unto the world , And mock our eyes with air : thou hast seen these signs ; They are black vesper 's pageants .
EROS : Ay , my lord ,
MARK ANTONY : That which is now a horse , even with a thought The rack dislimns , and makes it indistinct , As water is in water .
EROS : It does , my lord .
MARK ANTONY : My good knave Eros , now thy captain is Even such a body : here I am Antony : Yet cannot hold this visible shape , my knave . I made these wars for Egypt : and the queen , -- Whose heart I thought I had , for she had mine ; Which whilst it was mine had annex 'd unto 't A million more , now lost , --she , Eros , has Pack 'd cards with Caesar , and false-play 'd my glory Unto an enemy 's triumph . Nay , weep not , gentle Eros ; there is left us Ourselves to end ourselves . Enter MARDIAN O ! thy vile lady ! She has robb 'd me of my sword .
MARDIAN : No , Antony ; My mistress loved thee , and her fortunes mingled With thine entirely .
MARK ANTONY : Hence , saucy eunuch ; peace ! She hath betray 'd me and shall die the death .
MARDIAN : Death of one person can be paid but once , And that she has discharged : what thou wouldst do Is done unto thy hand : the last she spake Was ' Antony ! most noble Antony ! ' Then in the midst a tearing groan did break The name of Antony ; it was divided Between her heart and lips : she render 'd life , Thy name so buried in her .
MARK ANTONY : Dead , then ?
MARDIAN : Dead .
MARK ANTONY : Unarm , Eros ; the long day 's task is done , And we must sleep . To MARDIAN That thou depart 'st hence safe , Does pay thy labour richly ; go . Exit MARDIAN Off , pluck off : The seven-fold shield of Ajax cannot keep The battery from my heart . O , cleave , my sides ! Heart , once be stronger than thy continent , Crack thy frail case ! Apace , Eros , apace . No more a soldier : bruised pieces , go ; You have been nobly borne . From me awhile . Exit EROS I will o 'ertake thee , Cleopatra , and Weep for my pardon . So it must be , for now All length is torture : since the torch is out , Lie down , and stray no farther : now all labour Mars what it does ; yea , very force entangles Itself with strength : seal then , and all is done . Eros ! --I come , my queen : --Eros ! --Stay for me : Where souls do couch on flowers , we 'll hand in hand , And with our sprightly port make the ghosts gaze : Dido and her AEneas shall want troops , And all the haunt be ours . Come , Eros , Eros ! Re-enter EROS
EROS : What would my lord ?
