First Guard : Woe , woe are we , sir , you may not live to wear All your true followers out .
All : Most heavy day !
MARK ANTONY : Nay , good my fellows , do not please sharp fate To grace it with your sorrows : bid that welcome Which comes to punish us , and we punish it Seeming to bear it lightly . Take me up : I have led you oft : carry me now , good friends , And have my thanks for all . Enter CLEOPATRA and her maids aloft , with CHARMIAN and IRAS
CLEOPATRA : O Charmian , I will never go from hence .
CHARMIAN : Be comforted , dear madam .
CLEOPATRA : No , I will not : All strange and terrible events are welcome , But comforts we despise ; our size of sorrow , Proportion 'd to our cause , must be as great As that which makes it . Enter , below , DIOMEDES How now ! is he dead ?
DIOMEDES : His death 's upon him , but not dead . Look out o ' the other side your monument ; His guard have brought him thither . Enter , below , MARK ANTONY , borne by the Guard
CLEOPATRA : O sun , Burn the great sphere thou movest in ! darkling stand The varying shore o ' the world . O Antony , Antony , Antony ! Help , Charmian , help , Iras , help ; Help , friends below ; let 's draw him hither .
MARK ANTONY : Peace ! Not Caesar 's valour hath o 'erthrown Antony , But Antony 's hath triumph 'd on itself .
CLEOPATRA : So it should be , that none but Antony Should conquer Antony ; but woe ' tis so !
MARK ANTONY : I am dying , Egypt , dying ; only I here importune death awhile , until Of many thousand kisses the poor last I lay up thy lips .
CLEOPATRA : I dare not , dear , -- Dear my lord , pardon , --I dare not , Lest I be taken : not the imperious show Of the full-fortuned Caesar ever shall Be brooch 'd with me ; if knife , drugs , serpents , have Edge , sting , or operation , I am safe : Your wife Octavia , with her modest eyes And still conclusion , shall acquire no honour Demuring upon me . But come , come , Antony , -- Help me , my women , --we must draw thee up : Assist , good friends .
MARK ANTONY : O , quick , or I am gone .
CLEOPATRA : Here 's sport indeed ! How heavy weighs my lord ! Our strength is all gone into heaviness , That makes the weight : had I great Juno 's power , The strong-wing 'd Mercury should fetch thee up , And set thee by Jove 's side . Yet come a little , -- Wishes were ever fools , --O , come , come , come ; They heave MARK ANTONY aloft to CLEOPATRA And welcome , welcome ! die where thou hast lived : Quicken with kissing : had my lips that power , Thus would I wear them out .
All : A heavy sight !
MARK ANTONY : I am dying , Egypt , dying : Give me some wine , and let me speak a little .
CLEOPATRA : No , let me speak ; and let me rail so high , That the false housewife Fortune break her wheel , Provoked by my offence .
MARK ANTONY : One word , sweet queen : Of Caesar seek your honour , with your safety . O !
CLEOPATRA : They do not go together .
MARK ANTONY : Gentle , hear me : None about Caesar trust but Proculeius .
CLEOPATRA : My resolution and my hands I 'll trust ; None about Caesar .
MARK ANTONY : The miserable change now at my end Lament nor sorrow at ; but please your thoughts In feeding them with those my former fortunes Wherein I lived , the greatest prince o ' the world , The noblest ; and do now not basely die , Not cowardly put off my helmet to My countryman , --a Roman by a Roman Valiantly vanquish 'd . Now my spirit is going ; I can no more .
