First Soldier : Well , sir , good night . Enter two other Soldiers
Second Soldier : Soldiers , have careful watch .
Third Soldier : And you . Good night , good night . They place themselves in every corner of the stage
Fourth Soldier : Here we : and if to-morrow Our navy thrive , I have an absolute hope Our landmen will stand up .
Third Soldier : ' Tis a brave army , And full of purpose . Music of the hautboys as under the stage
Fourth Soldier : Peace ! what noise ?
First Soldier : List , list !
Second Soldier : Hark !
First Soldier : Music i ' the air .
Third Soldier : Under the earth .
Fourth Soldier : It signs well , does it not ?
Third Soldier : No .
First Soldier : Peace , I say ! What should this mean ?
Second Soldier : ' Tis the god Hercules , whom Antony loved , Now leaves him .
First Soldier : Walk ; let 's see if other watchmen Do hear what we do ? They advance to another post
Second Soldier : How now , masters !
All : How now ! How now ! do you hear this ?
First Soldier : Ay ; is 't not strange ?
Third Soldier : Do you hear , masters ? do you hear ?
First Soldier : Follow the noise so far as we have quarter ; Let 's see how it will give off .
All : Content . ' Tis strange . Enter MARK ANTONY and CLEOPATRA , CHARMIAN , and others attending
MARK ANTONY : Eros ! mine armour , Eros !
CLEOPATRA : Sleep a little .
MARK ANTONY : No , my chuck . Eros , come ; mine armour , Eros ! Enter EROS with armour Come good fellow , put mine iron on : If fortune be not ours to-day , it is Because we brave her : come .
CLEOPATRA : Nay , I 'll help too . What 's this for ?
MARK ANTONY : Ah , let be , let be ! thou art The armourer of my heart : false , false ; this , this .
CLEOPATRA : Sooth , la , I 'll help : thus it must be .
MARK ANTONY : Well , well ; We shall thrive now . Seest thou , my good fellow ? Go put on thy defences .
EROS : Briefly , sir .
CLEOPATRA : Is not this buckled well ?
MARK ANTONY : Rarely , rarely : He that unbuckles this , till we do please To daff 't for our repose , shall hear a storm . Thou fumblest , Eros ; and my queen 's a squire More tight at this than thou : dispatch . O love , That thou couldst see my wars to-day , and knew 'st The royal occupation ! thou shouldst see A workman in 't . Enter an armed Soldier Good morrow to thee ; welcome : Thou look 'st like him that knows a warlike charge : To business that we love we rise betime , And go to 't with delight .
Soldier : A thousand , sir , Early though 't be , have on their riveted trim , And at the port expect you . Shout . Trumpets flourish Enter Captains and Soldiers
Captain : The morn is fair . Good morrow , general .
All : Good morrow , general .
MARK ANTONY : ' Tis well blown , lads : This morning , like the spirit of a youth That means to be of note , begins betimes . So , so ; come , give me that : this way ; well said . Fare thee well , dame , whate 'er becomes of me : This is a soldier 's kiss : rebukeable Kisses her And worthy shameful cheque it were , to stand On more mechanic compliment ; I 'll leave thee Now , like a man of steel . You that will fight , Follow me close ; I 'll bring you to 't . Adieu .
CHARMIAN : Please you , retire to your chamber .
CLEOPATRA : Lead me . He goes forth gallantly . That he and Caesar might Determine this great war in single fight ! Then Antony , --but now--Well , on . Trumpets sound . Enter MARK ANTONY and EROS ; a Soldier meeting them
