CLEOPATRA : As well a woman with an eunuch play 'd As with a woman . Come , you 'll play with me , sir ?
MARDIAN : As well as I can , madam .
CLEOPATRA : And when good will is show 'd , though 't come too short , The actor may plead pardon . I 'll none now : Give me mine angle ; we 'll to the river : there , My music playing far off , I will betray Tawny-finn 'd fishes ; my bended hook shall pierce Their slimy jaws ; and , as I draw them up , I 'll think them every one an Antony , And say ' Ah , ha ! you 're caught . ' 
CHARMIAN : ' Twas merry when You wager 'd on your angling ; when your diver Did hang a salt-fish on his hook , which he With fervency drew up .
CLEOPATRA : That time , --O times ! -- I laugh 'd him out of patience ; and that night I laugh 'd him into patience ; and next morn , Ere the ninth hour , I drunk him to his bed ; Then put my tires and mantles on him , whilst I wore his sword Philippan . Enter a Messenger O , from Italy Ram thou thy fruitful tidings in mine ears , That long time have been barren .
Messenger : Madam , madam , --
CLEOPATRA : Antonius dead ! --If thou say so , villain , Thou kill 'st thy mistress : but well and free , If thou so yield him , there is gold , and here My bluest veins to kiss ; a hand that kings Have lipp 'd , and trembled kissing .
Messenger : First , madam , he is well .
CLEOPATRA : Why , there 's more gold . But , sirrah , mark , we use To say the dead are well : bring it to that , The gold I give thee will I melt and pour Down thy ill-uttering throat .
Messenger : Good madam , hear me .
CLEOPATRA : Well , go to , I will ; But there 's no goodness in thy face : if Antony Be free and healthful , --so tart a favour To trumpet such good tidings ! If not well , Thou shouldst come like a Fury crown 'd with snakes , Not like a formal man .
Messenger : Will 't please you hear me ?
CLEOPATRA : I have a mind to strike thee ere thou speak 'st : Yet if thou say Antony lives , is well , Or friends with Caesar , or not captive to him , I 'll set thee in a shower of gold , and hail Rich pearls upon thee .
Messenger : Madam , he 's well .
CLEOPATRA : Well said .
Messenger : And friends with Caesar .
CLEOPATRA : Thou 'rt an honest man .
Messenger : Caesar and he are greater friends than ever .
CLEOPATRA : Make thee a fortune from me .
Messenger : But yet , madam , --
CLEOPATRA : I do not like ' But yet , ' it does allay The good precedence ; fie upon ' But yet ' ! ' But yet ' is as a gaoler to bring forth Some monstrous malefactor . Prithee , friend , Pour out the pack of matter to mine ear , The good and bad together : he 's friends with Caesar : In state of health thou say 'st ; and thou say 'st free .
Messenger : Free , madam ! no ; I made no such report : He 's bound unto Octavia .
CLEOPATRA : For what good turn ?
Messenger : For the best turn i ' the bed .
CLEOPATRA : I am pale , Charmian .
Messenger : Madam , he 's married to Octavia .
CLEOPATRA : The most infectious pestilence upon thee ! Strikes him down
Messenger : Good madam , patience .
CLEOPATRA : What say you ? Hence , Strikes him again Horrible villain ! or I 'll spurn thine eyes Like balls before me ; I 'll unhair thy head : She hales him up and down Thou shalt be whipp 'd with wire , and stew 'd in brine , Smarting in lingering pickle .
Messenger : Gracious madam , I that do bring the news made not the match .
