MARK ANTONY : Most sweet queen , --
CLEOPATRA : Nay , pray you , seek no colour for your going , But bid farewell , and go : when you sued staying , Then was the time for words : no going then ; Eternity was in our lips and eyes , Bliss in our brows ' bent ; none our parts so poor , But was a race of heaven : they are so still , Or thou , the greatest soldier of the world , Art turn 'd the greatest liar .
MARK ANTONY : How now , lady !
CLEOPATRA : I would I had thy inches ; thou shouldst know There were a heart in Egypt .
MARK ANTONY : Hear me , queen : The strong necessity of time commands Our services awhile ; but my full heart Remains in use with you . Our Italy Shines o 'er with civil swords : Sextus Pompeius Makes his approaches to the port of Rome : Equality of two domestic powers Breed scrupulous faction : the hated , grown to strength , Are newly grown to love : the condemn 'd Pompey , Rich in his father 's honour , creeps apace , Into the hearts of such as have not thrived Upon the present state , whose numbers threaten ; And quietness , grown sick of rest , would purge By any desperate change : my more particular , And that which most with you should safe my going , Is Fulvia 's death .
CLEOPATRA : Though age from folly could not give me freedom , It does from childishness : can Fulvia die ?
MARK ANTONY : She 's dead , my queen : Look here , and at thy sovereign leisure read The garboils she awaked ; at the last , best : See when and where she died .
CLEOPATRA : O most false love ! Where be the sacred vials thou shouldst fill With sorrowful water ? Now I see , I see , In Fulvia 's death , how mine received shall be .
MARK ANTONY : Quarrel no more , but be prepared to know The purposes I bear ; which are , or cease , As you shall give the advice . By the fire That quickens Nilus ' slime , I go from hence Thy soldier , servant ; making peace or war As thou affect 'st .
CLEOPATRA : Cut my lace , Charmian , come ; But let it be : I am quickly ill , and well , So Antony loves .
MARK ANTONY : My precious queen , forbear ; And give true evidence to his love , which stands An honourable trial .
CLEOPATRA : So Fulvia told me . I prithee , turn aside and weep for her , Then bid adieu to me , and say the tears Belong to Egypt : good now , play one scene Of excellent dissembling ; and let it look Life perfect honour .
MARK ANTONY : You 'll heat my blood : no more .
CLEOPATRA : You can do better yet ; but this is meetly .
MARK ANTONY : Now , by my sword , --
CLEOPATRA : And target . Still he mends ; But this is not the best . Look , prithee , Charmian , How this Herculean Roman does become The carriage of his chafe .
MARK ANTONY : I 'll leave you , lady .
CLEOPATRA : Courteous lord , one word . Sir , you and I must part , but that 's not it : Sir , you and I have loved , but there 's not it ; That you know well : something it is I would , O , my oblivion is a very Antony , And I am all forgotten .
MARK ANTONY : But that your royalty Holds idleness your subject , I should take you For idleness itself .
CLEOPATRA : ' Tis sweating labour To bear such idleness so near the heart As Cleopatra this . But , sir , forgive me ; Since my becomings kill me , when they do not Eye well to you : your honour calls you hence ; Therefore be deaf to my unpitied folly . And all the gods go with you ! upon your sword Sit laurel victory ! and smooth success Be strew 'd before your feet !
