CLEOPATRA : Get thee hence ; farewell .
Clown : I wish you all joy of the worm . Setting down his basket
CLEOPATRA : Farewell .
Clown : You must think this , look you , that the worm will do his kind .
CLEOPATRA : Ay , ay ; farewell .
Clown : Look you , the worm is not to be trusted but in the keeping of wise people ; for , indeed , there is no goodness in worm .
CLEOPATRA : Take thou no care ; it shall be heeded .
Clown : Very good . Give it nothing , I pray you , for it is not worth the feeding .
CLEOPATRA : Will it eat me ?
Clown : You must not think I am so simple but I know the devil himself will not eat a woman : I know that a woman is a dish for the gods , if the devil dress her not . But , truly , these same whoreson devils do the gods great harm in their women ; for in every ten that they make , the devils mar five .
CLEOPATRA : Well , get thee gone ; farewell .
Clown : Yes , forsooth : I wish you joy o ' the worm . Exit Re-enter IRAS with a robe , crown , & c
CLEOPATRA : Give me my robe , put on my crown ; I have Immortal longings in me : now no more The juice of Egypt 's grape shall moist this lip : Yare , yare , good Iras ; quick . Methinks I hear Antony call ; I see him rouse himself To praise my noble act ; I hear him mock The luck of Caesar , which the gods give men To excuse their after wrath : husband , I come : Now to that name my courage prove my title ! I am fire and air ; my other elements I give to baser life . So ; have you done ? Come then , and take the last warmth of my lips . Farewell , kind Charmian ; Iras , long farewell . Kisses them . IRAS falls and dies Have I the aspic in my lips ? Dost fall ? If thou and nature can so gently part , The stroke of death is as a lover 's pinch , Which hurts , and is desired . Dost thou lie still ? If thus thou vanishest , thou tell 'st the world It is not worth leave-taking .
CHARMIAN : Dissolve , thick cloud , and rain ; that I may say , The gods themselves do weep !
CLEOPATRA : This proves me base : If she first meet the curled Antony , He 'll make demand of her , and spend that kiss Which is my heaven to have . Come , thou mortal wretch , To an asp , which she applies to her breast With thy sharp teeth this knot intrinsicate Of life at once untie : poor venomous fool Be angry , and dispatch . O , couldst thou speak , That I might hear thee call great Caesar ass Unpolicied !
CHARMIAN : O eastern star !
CLEOPATRA : Peace , peace ! Dost thou not see my baby at my breast , That sucks the nurse asleep ?
CHARMIAN : O , break ! O , break !
CLEOPATRA : As sweet as balm , as soft as air , as gentle , -- O Antony ! --Nay , I will take thee too . Applying another asp to her arm What should I stay-- Dies
CHARMIAN : In this vile world ? So , fare thee well . Now boast thee , death , in thy possession lies A lass unparallel 'd . Downy windows , close ; And golden Phoebus never be beheld Of eyes again so royal ! Your crown 's awry ; I 'll mend it , and then play . Enter the Guard , rushing in
First Guard : Where is the queen ?
CHARMIAN : Speak softly , wake her not .
First Guard : Caesar hath sent--
CHARMIAN : Too slow a messenger . Applies an asp O , come apace , dispatch ! I partly feel thee .
First Guard : Approach , ho ! All 's not well : Caesar 's beguiled .
Second Guard : There 's Dolabella sent from Caesar ; call him .
