CLEOPATRA : My master , and my lord !
OCTAVIUS CAESAR : Not so . Adieu .
CLEOPATRA : He words me , girls , he words me , that I should not Be noble to myself : but , hark thee , Charmian . Whispers CHARMIAN
IRAS : Finish , good lady ; the bright day is done , And we are for the dark .
CLEOPATRA : Hie thee again : I have spoke already , and it is provided ; Go put it to the haste .
CHARMIAN : Madam , I will . Re-enter DOLABELLA
DOLABELLA : Where is the queen ?
CHARMIAN : Behold , sir . Exit
CLEOPATRA : Dolabella !
DOLABELLA : Madam , as thereto sworn by your command , Which my love makes religion to obey , I tell you this : Caesar through Syria Intends his journey ; and within three days You with your children will he send before : Make your best use of this : I have perform 'd Your pleasure and my promise .
CLEOPATRA : Dolabella , I shall remain your debtor .
DOLABELLA : I your servant , Adieu , good queen ; I must attend on Caesar .
CLEOPATRA : Farewell , and thanks . Exit DOLABELLA Now , Iras , what think 'st thou ? Thou , an Egyptian puppet , shalt be shown In Rome , as well as I mechanic slaves With greasy aprons , rules , and hammers , shall Uplift us to the view ; in their thick breaths , Rank of gross diet , shall be enclouded , And forced to drink their vapour .
IRAS : The gods forbid !
CLEOPATRA : Nay , ' tis most certain , Iras : saucy lictors Will catch at us , like strumpets ; and scald rhymers Ballad us out o ' tune : the quick comedians Extemporally will stage us , and present Our Alexandrian revels ; Antony Shall be brought drunken forth , and I shall see Some squeaking Cleopatra boy my greatness I ' the posture of a whore .
IRAS : O the good gods !
CLEOPATRA : Nay , that 's certain .
IRAS : I 'll never see ' t ; for , I am sure , my nails Are stronger than mine eyes .
CLEOPATRA : Why , that 's the way To fool their preparation , and to conquer Their most absurd intents . Re-enter CHARMIAN Now , Charmian ! Show me , my women , like a queen : go fetch My best attires : I am again for Cydnus , To meet Mark Antony : sirrah Iras , go . Now , noble Charmian , we 'll dispatch indeed ; And , when thou hast done this chare , I 'll give thee leave To play till doomsday . Bring our crown and all . Wherefore 's this noise ? Exit IRAS . A noise within Enter a Guardsman
Guard : Here is a rural fellow That will not be denied your highness presence : He brings you figs .
CLEOPATRA : Let him come in . Exit Guardsman What poor an instrument May do a noble deed ! he brings me liberty . My resolution 's placed , and I have nothing Of woman in me : now from head to foot I am marble-constant ; now the fleeting moon No planet is of mine . Re-enter Guardsman , with Clown bringing in a basket
Guard : This is the man .
CLEOPATRA : Avoid , and leave him . Exit Guardsman Hast thou the pretty worm of Nilus there , That kills and pains not ?
Clown : Truly , I have him : but I would not be the party that should desire you to touch him , for his biting is immortal ; those that do die of it do seldom or never recover .
CLEOPATRA : Rememberest thou any that have died on 't ?
