MARK ANTONY : I did not think to draw my sword ' gainst Pompey ; For he hath laid strange courtesies and great Of late upon me : I must thank him only , Lest my remembrance suffer ill report ; At heel of that , defy him .
LEPIDUS : Time calls upon 's : Of us must Pompey presently be sought , Or else he seeks out us .
MARK ANTONY : Where lies he ?
OCTAVIUS CAESAR : About the mount Misenum .
MARK ANTONY : What is his strength by land ?
OCTAVIUS CAESAR : Great and increasing : but by sea He is an absolute master .
MARK ANTONY : So is the fame . Would we had spoke together ! Haste we for it : Yet , ere we put ourselves in arms , dispatch we The business we have talk 'd of .
OCTAVIUS CAESAR : With most gladness : And do invite you to my sister 's view , Whither straight I 'll lead you .
MARK ANTONY : Let us , Lepidus , Not lack your company .
LEPIDUS : Noble Antony , Not sickness should detain me .
MECAENAS : Welcome from Egypt , sir .
DOMITIUS ENOBARBUS : Half the heart of Caesar , worthy Mecaenas ! My honourable friend , Agrippa !
AGRIPPA : Good Enobarbus !
MECAENAS : We have cause to be glad that matters are so well digested . You stayed well by ' t in Egypt .
DOMITIUS ENOBARBUS : Ay , sir ; we did sleep day out of countenance , and made the night light with drinking .
MECAENAS : Eight wild-boars roasted whole at a breakfast , and but twelve persons there ; is this true ?
DOMITIUS ENOBARBUS : This was but as a fly by an eagle : we had much more monstrous matter of feast , which worthily deserved noting .
MECAENAS : She 's a most triumphant lady , if report be square to her .
DOMITIUS ENOBARBUS : When she first met Mark Antony , she pursed up his heart , upon the river of Cydnus .
AGRIPPA : There she appeared indeed ; or my reporter devised well for her .
DOMITIUS ENOBARBUS : I will tell you . The barge she sat in , like a burnish 'd throne , Burn 'd on the water : the poop was beaten gold ; Purple the sails , and so perfumed that The winds were love-sick with them ; the oars were silver , Which to the tune of flutes kept stroke , and made The water which they beat to follow faster , As amorous of their strokes . For her own person , It beggar 'd all description : she did lie In her pavilion--cloth-of-gold of tissue-- O 'er-picturing that Venus where we see The fancy outwork nature : on each side her Stood pretty dimpled boys , like smiling Cupids , With divers-colour 'd fans , whose wind did seem To glow the delicate cheeks which they did cool , And what they undid did .
AGRIPPA : O , rare for Antony !
DOMITIUS ENOBARBUS : Her gentlewomen , like the Nereides , So many mermaids , tended her i ' the eyes , And made their bends adornings : at the helm A seeming mermaid steers : the silken tackle Swell with the touches of those flower-soft hands , That yarely frame the office . From the barge A strange invisible perfume hits the sense Of the adjacent wharfs . The city cast Her people out upon her ; and Antony , Enthroned i ' the market-place , did sit alone , Whistling to the air ; which , but for vacancy , Had gone to gaze on Cleopatra too , And made a gap in nature .
AGRIPPA : Rare Egyptian !
DOMITIUS ENOBARBUS : Upon her landing , Antony sent to her , Invited her to supper : she replied , It should be better he became her guest ; Which she entreated : our courteous Antony , Whom ne 'er the word of ' No ' woman heard speak , Being barber 'd ten times o 'er , goes to the feast , And for his ordinary pays his heart For what his eyes eat only .
AGRIPPA : Royal wench ! She made great Caesar lay his sword to bed : He plough 'd her , and she cropp 'd .
