Egyptian : A poor Egyptian yet . The queen my mistress , Confined in all she has , her monument , Of thy intents desires instruction , That she preparedly may frame herself To the way she 's forced to .
OCTAVIUS CAESAR : Bid her have good heart : She soon shall know of us , by some of ours , How honourable and how kindly we Determine for her ; for Caesar cannot live To be ungentle .
Egyptian : So the gods preserve thee ! Exit
OCTAVIUS CAESAR : Come hither , Proculeius . Go and say , We purpose her no shame : give her what comforts The quality of her passion shall require , Lest , in her greatness , by some mortal stroke She do defeat us ; for her life in Rome Would be eternal in our triumph : go , And with your speediest bring us what she says , And how you find of her .
PROCULEIUS : Caesar , I shall . Exit
OCTAVIUS CAESAR : Gallus , go you along . Exit GALLUS Where 's Dolabella , To second Proculeius ?
All : Dolabella !
OCTAVIUS CAESAR : Let him alone , for I remember now How he 's employ 'd : he shall in time be ready . Go with me to my tent ; where you shall see How hardly I was drawn into this war ; How calm and gentle I proceeded still In all my writings : go with me , and see What I can show in this . Enter CLEOPATRA , CHARMIAN , and IRAS
CLEOPATRA : My desolation does begin to make A better life . ' Tis paltry to be Caesar ; Not being Fortune , he 's but Fortune 's knave , A minister of her will : and it is great To do that thing that ends all other deeds ; Which shackles accidents and bolts up change ; Which sleeps , and never palates more the dug , The beggar 's nurse and Caesar 's . Enter , to the gates of the monument , PROCULEIUS , GALLUS and Soldiers
PROCULEIUS : Caesar sends greeting to the Queen of Egypt ; And bids thee study on what fair demands Thou mean 'st to have him grant thee .
CLEOPATRA : What 's thy name ?
PROCULEIUS : My name is Proculeius .
CLEOPATRA : Antony Did tell me of you , bade me trust you ; but I do not greatly care to be deceived , That have no use for trusting . If your master Would have a queen his beggar , you must tell him , That majesty , to keep decorum , must No less beg than a kingdom : if he please To give me conquer 'd Egypt for my son , He gives me so much of mine own , as I Will kneel to him with thanks .
PROCULEIUS : Be of good cheer ; You 're fall 'n into a princely hand , fear nothing : Make your full reference freely to my lord , Who is so full of grace , that it flows over On all that need : let me report to him Your sweet dependency ; and you shall find A conqueror that will pray in aid for kindness , Where he for grace is kneel 'd to .
CLEOPATRA : Pray you , tell him I am his fortune 's vassal , and I send him The greatness he has got . I hourly learn A doctrine of obedience ; and would gladly Look him i ' the face .
PROCULEIUS : This I 'll report , dear lady . Have comfort , for I know your plight is pitied Of him that caused it .
GALLUS : You see how easily she may be surprised : Here PROCULEIUS and two of the Guard ascend the monument by a ladder placed against a window , and , having descended , come behind CLEOPATRA . Some of the Guard unbar and open the gates To PROCULEIUS and the Guard Guard her till Caesar come . Exit
IRAS : Royal queen !
CHARMIAN : O Cleopatra ! thou art taken , queen :
CLEOPATRA : Quick , quick , good hands . Drawing a dagger
PROCULEIUS : Hold , worthy lady , hold : Seizes and disarms her Do not yourself such wrong , who are in this Relieved , but not betray 'd .
