Website:	When the play begins, Richard sits on his throne and attempts to resolve a conflict between Henry Bolingbroke, a cousin of Richard's, and Thomas Mowbray, the Duke of Norfolk. Henry claims that Mowbray is guilty of embezzling royal funds and also of killing Henry's uncle, the Duke of Gloucester. Henry's own father, John of Gaunt, believes it is actually Richard who plotted to kill the uncle'John's brother'in order to steal his land in the name of the crown, but Henry doesn't believe that at the moment. After Henry and Thomas fail to reconcile their differences, Richard announces that the dispute will be resolved through a trial by combat.  But just when the battle between the two is about to commence, Richard puts an end to the proceedings, banishing Henry from the kingdom for ten years'later changing his mind to six years'and banishing Mowbray forever. The abruptness and arbitrariness of the decision increases suspicions that Richard is indeed the one responsible for the uncle's death. Perhaps he feels guilty, which is why he gives Henry a comparatively reduced sentence. Meanwhile, by sending Mowbray away forever, it's possible that Richard looks to shove the conflict under the rug, in a sense.  Henry's suspicion turns to outright anger after John dies and Richard steals his lands, which are rightfully Henry's inheritance. Knowing that Richard has lost the favor of both the commoners and the nobility, the popular and naturally charismatic Henry plots to overthrow the government while Richard is away on a war with Ireland'the same expensive war that prompts him to be stealing all these lands from fellow noblemen. Henry marches an army into Northern England. He executes two of Richard's highest-ranking loyalists, Bushy and Green, and tries to convince the Duke of York, the man left in charge of the kingdom while Richard's away, into joining his rebellion. The Duke of York, knowing how popular Henry is in with the people, decides to join his side against Richard.  By the time Richard returns to England, he has lost control to such an extent that it's not even worth putting up a fight. Henry, meanwhile, has both his lands back and the very throne itself. Henry Bolingbroke is now King Henry IV. Wanting to look gracious'and also considering he's still not one-hundred percent certain of Richard's guilt'Henry decides not to kill Richard. Instead he imprisons the deposed king in the castle of Pomfret.  But Henry's reign gets off to a rocky start: The Duke of Aumerie, who is the Duke of York's son, plans a rebellion with a number of other conspirators, all still loyal to Richard. The Duke of York discovers the plot and informs Henry. The Duke of York's cooperation doesn't stop Henry from deciding to kill all of the conspirators, including the Duke of Aumerie. It is only when the Duchess of York, Aumerie's mother, pleads for her son's life, that Henry relents.  After the rebellion is quashed, however, Henry gives a speech in which he makes ambiguous reference to his 'living fear.' Does he mean that his fear itself is alive? As if to say that the fear is so present or palpable that it has taken on the quality of a living being? Or does he mean that there is a man he fears who still lives'namely, Richard himself? A man named Exton, eager to gain the king's favor, interprets it as the latter and kills Richard.  Publicly, at least, Henry IV disavows the murderer, adding that he plans to travel to Jerusalem so that God may forgive him if he is at all responsible for the death. But the ambivalence and uncertainty surrounding the event are actually quite reminiscent of Richard's own failings as a king seen at the beginning of the play, lending irony and dark portents to the start of Henry's reign.


Website:	Website:	https://www.supersummary.com/richard-ii/summary/
