VERGES : Let them be in the hands--
CONRADE : Off , coxcomb !
DOGBERRY : God 's my life , where 's the sexton ? let him write down the prince 's officer coxcomb . Come , bind them . Thou naughty varlet !
CONRADE : Away ! you are an ass , you are an ass .
DOGBERRY : Dost thou not suspect my place ? dost thou not suspect my years ? O that he were here to write me down an ass ! But , masters , remember that I am an ass ; though it be not written down , yet forget not that I am an ass . No , thou villain , thou art full of piety , as shall be proved upon thee by good witness . I am a wise fellow , and , which is more , an officer , and , which is more , a householder , and , which is more , as pretty a piece of flesh as any is in Messina , and one that knows the law , go to ; and a rich fellow enough , go to ; and a fellow that hath had losses , and one that hath two gowns and every thing handsome about him . Bring him away . O that I had been writ down an ass ! Enter LEONATO and ANTONIO
ANTONIO : If you go on thus , you will kill yourself : And ' tis not wisdom thus to second grief Against yourself .
LEONATO : I pray thee , cease thy counsel , Which falls into mine ears as profitless As water in a sieve : give not me counsel ; Nor let no comforter delight mine ear But such a one whose wrongs do suit with mine . Bring me a father that so loved his child , Whose joy of her is overwhelm 'd like mine , And bid him speak of patience ; Measure his woe the length and breadth of mine And let it answer every strain for strain , As thus for thus and such a grief for such , In every lineament , branch , shape , and form : If such a one will smile and stroke his beard , Bid sorrow wag , cry ' hem ! ' when he should groan , Patch grief with proverbs , make misfortune drunk With candle-wasters ; bring him yet to me , And I of him will gather patience . But there is no such man : for , brother , men Can counsel and speak comfort to that grief Which they themselves not feel ; but , tasting it , Their counsel turns to passion , which before Would give preceptial medicine to rage , Fetter strong madness in a silken thread , Charm ache with air and agony with words : No , no ; ' tis all men 's office to speak patience To those that wring under the load of sorrow , But no man 's virtue nor sufficiency To be so moral when he shall endure The like himself . Therefore give me no counsel : My griefs cry louder than advertisement .
ANTONIO : Therein do men from children nothing differ .
LEONATO : I pray thee , peace . I will be flesh and blood ; For there was never yet philosopher That could endure the toothache patiently , However they have writ the style of gods And made a push at chance and sufferance .
ANTONIO : Yet bend not all the harm upon yourself ; Make those that do offend you suffer too .
LEONATO : There thou speak 'st reason : nay , I will do so . My soul doth tell me Hero is belied ; And that shall Claudio know ; so shall the prince And all of them that thus dishonour her .
ANTONIO : Here comes the prince and Claudio hastily . Enter DON PEDRO and CLAUDIO
DON PEDRO : Good den , good den .
CLAUDIO : Good day to both of you .
LEONATO : Hear you. my lords , --
DON PEDRO : We have some haste , Leonato .
LEONATO : Some haste , my lord ! well , fare you well , my lord : Are you so hasty now ? well , all is one .
DON PEDRO : Nay , do not quarrel with us , good old man .
