BENEDICK : Sir , sir , be patient . For my part , I am so attired in wonder , I know not what to say .
BEATRICE : O , on my soul , my cousin is belied !
BENEDICK : Lady , were you her bedfellow last night ?
BEATRICE : No , truly not ; although , until last night , I have this twelvemonth been her bedfellow .
LEONATO : Confirm 'd , confirm 'd ! O , that is stronger made Which was before barr 'd up with ribs of iron ! Would the two princes lie , and Claudio lie , Who loved her so , that , speaking of her foulness , Wash 'd it with tears ? Hence from her ! let her die .
FRIAR FRANCIS : Hear me a little ; For I have only been silent so long And given way unto this course of fortune . ... By noting of the lady I have mark 'd A thousand blushing apparitions To start into her face , a thousand innocent shames In angel whiteness beat away those blushes ; And in her eye there hath appear 'd a fire , To burn the errors that these princes hold Against her maiden truth . Call me a fool ; Trust not my reading nor my observations , Which with experimental seal doth warrant The tenor of my book ; trust not my age , My reverence , calling , nor divinity , If this sweet lady lie not guiltless here Under some biting error .
LEONATO : Friar , it cannot be . Thou seest that all the grace that she hath left Is that she will not add to her damnation A sin of perjury ; she not denies it : Why seek 'st thou then to cover with excuse That which appears in proper nakedness ?
FRIAR FRANCIS : Lady , what man is he you are accused of ?
HERO : They know that do accuse me ; I know none : If I know more of any man alive Than that which maiden modesty doth warrant , Let all my sins lack mercy ! O my father , Prove you that any man with me conversed At hours unmeet , or that I yesternight Maintain 'd the change of words with any creature , Refuse me , hate me , torture me to death !
FRIAR FRANCIS : There is some strange misprision in the princes .
BENEDICK : Two of them have the very bent of honour ; And if their wisdoms be misled in this , The practise of it lives in John the bastard , Whose spirits toil in frame of villanies .
LEONATO : I know not . If they speak but truth of her , These hands shall tear her ; if they wrong her honour , The proudest of them shall well hear of it . Time hath not yet so dried this blood of mine , Nor age so eat up my invention , Nor fortune made such havoc of my means , Nor my bad life reft me so much of friends , But they shall find , awaked in such a kind , Both strength of limb and policy of mind , Ability in means and choice of friends , To quit me of them throughly .
FRIAR FRANCIS : Pause awhile , And let my counsel sway you in this case . Your daughter here the princes left for dead : Let her awhile be secretly kept in , And publish it that she is dead indeed ; Maintain a mourning ostentation And on your family 's old monument Hang mournful epitaphs and do all rites That appertain unto a burial .
LEONATO : What shall become of this ? what will this do ?
