VERGES : Nay , by 'r our lady , that I think a ' cannot .
DOGBERRY : Five shillings to one on 't , with any man that knows the statutes , he may stay him : marry , not without the prince be willing ; for , indeed , the watch ought to offend no man ; and it is an offence to stay a man against his will .
VERGES : By 'r lady , I think it be so .
DOGBERRY : Ha , ha , ha ! Well , masters , good night : an there be any matter of weight chances , call up me : keep your fellows ' counsels and your own ; and good night . Come , neighbour .
Watchman : Well , masters , we hear our charge : let us go sit here upon the church-bench till two , and then all to bed .
DOGBERRY : One word more , honest neighbours . I pray you watch about Signior Leonato 's door ; for the wedding being there to-morrow , there is a great coil to-night . Adieu : be vigitant , I beseech you . Enter BORACHIO and CONRADE
BORACHIO : What Conrade !
Watchman : Peace ! stir not .
BORACHIO : Conrade , I say !
CONRADE : Here , man ; I am at thy elbow .
BORACHIO : Mass , and my elbow itched ; I thought there would a scab follow .
CONRADE : I will owe thee an answer for that : and now forward with thy tale .
BORACHIO : Stand thee close , then , under this pent-house , for it drizzles rain ; and I will , like a true drunkard , utter all to thee .
Watchman : Some treason , masters : yet stand close .
BORACHIO : Therefore know I have earned of Don John a thousand ducats .
CONRADE : Is it possible that any villany should be so dear ?
BORACHIO : Thou shouldst rather ask if it were possible any villany should be so rich ; for when rich villains have need of poor ones , poor ones may make what price they will .
CONRADE : I wonder at it .
BORACHIO : That shows thou art unconfirmed . Thou knowest that the fashion of a doublet , or a hat , or a cloak , is nothing to a man .
CONRADE : Yes , it is apparel .
BORACHIO : I mean , the fashion .
CONRADE : Yes , the fashion is the fashion .
BORACHIO : Tush ! I may as well say the fool 's the fool . But seest thou not what a deformed thief this fashion is ?
Watchman : I know that Deformed ; a ' has been a vile thief this seven year ; a ' goes up and down like a gentleman : I remember his name .
BORACHIO : Didst thou not hear somebody ?
CONRADE : No ; ' twas the vane on the house .
BORACHIO : Seest thou not , I say , what a deformed thief this fashion is ? how giddily a ' turns about all the hot bloods between fourteen and five-and-thirty ? sometimes fashioning them like Pharaoh 's soldiers in the reeky painting , sometime like god Bel 's priests in the old church-window , sometime like the shaven Hercules in the smirched worm-eaten tapestry , where his codpiece seems as massy as his club ?
CONRADE : All this I see ; and I see that the fashion wears out more apparel than the man . But art not thou thyself giddy with the fashion too , that thou hast shifted out of thy tale into telling me of the fashion ?
BORACHIO : Not so , neither : but know that I have to-night wooed Margaret , the Lady Hero 's gentlewoman , by the name of Hero : she leans me out at her mistress ' chamber-window , bids me a thousand times good night , --I tell this tale vilely : --I should first tell thee how the prince , Claudio and my master , planted and placed and possessed by my master Don John , saw afar off in the orchard this amiable encounter .
CONRADE : And thought they Margaret was Hero ?
