DON PEDRO : I shall see thee , ere I die , look pale with love .
BENEDICK : With anger , with sickness , or with hunger , my lord , not with love : prove that ever I lose more blood with love than I will get again with drinking , pick out mine eyes with a ballad-maker 's pen and hang me up at the door of a brothel-house for the sign of blind Cupid .
DON PEDRO : Well , if ever thou dost fall from this faith , thou wilt prove a notable argument .
BENEDICK : If I do , hang me in a bottle like a cat and shoot at me ; and he that hits me , let him be clapped on the shoulder , and called Adam .
DON PEDRO : Well , as time shall try : ' In time the savage bull doth bear the yoke . ' 
BENEDICK : The savage bull may ; but if ever the sensible Benedick bear it , pluck off the bull 's horns and set them in my forehead : and let me be vilely painted , and in such great letters as they write ' Here is good horse to hire , ' let them signify under my sign ' Here you may see Benedick the married man . ' 
CLAUDIO : If this should ever happen , thou wouldst be horn-mad .
DON PEDRO : Nay , if Cupid have not spent all his quiver in Venice , thou wilt quake for this shortly .
BENEDICK : I look for an earthquake too , then .
DON PEDRO : Well , you temporize with the hours . In the meantime , good Signior Benedick , repair to Leonato 's : commend me to him and tell him I will not fail him at supper ; for indeed he hath made great preparation .
BENEDICK : I have almost matter enough in me for such an embassage ; and so I commit you--
CLAUDIO : To the tuition of God : From my house , if I had it , --
DON PEDRO : The sixth of July : Your loving friend , Benedick .
BENEDICK : Nay , mock not , mock not . The body of your discourse is sometime guarded with fragments , and the guards are but slightly basted on neither : ere you flout old ends any further , examine your conscience : and so I leave you . Exit
CLAUDIO : My liege , your highness now may do me good .
DON PEDRO : My love is thine to teach : teach it but how , And thou shalt see how apt it is to learn Any hard lesson that may do thee good .
CLAUDIO : Hath Leonato any son , my lord ?
DON PEDRO : No child but Hero ; she 's his only heir . Dost thou affect her , Claudio ?
CLAUDIO : O , my lord , When you went onward on this ended action , I look 'd upon her with a soldier 's eye , That liked , but had a rougher task in hand Than to drive liking to the name of love : But now I am return 'd and that war-thoughts Have left their places vacant , in their rooms Come thronging soft and delicate desires , All prompting me how fair young Hero is , Saying , I liked her ere I went to wars .
DON PEDRO : Thou wilt be like a lover presently And tire the hearer with a book of words . If thou dost love fair Hero , cherish it , And I will break with her and with her father , And thou shalt have her . Was 't not to this end That thou began 'st to twist so fine a story ?
CLAUDIO : How sweetly you do minister to love , That know love 's grief by his complexion ! But lest my liking might too sudden seem , I would have salved it with a longer treatise .
