DON PEDRO : Come , shall we hear this music ?
CLAUDIO : Yea , my good lord . How still the evening is , As hush 'd on purpose to grace harmony !
DON PEDRO : See you where Benedick hath hid himself ?
CLAUDIO : O , very well , my lord : the music ended , We 'll fit the kid-fox with a pennyworth . Enter BALTHASAR with Music
DON PEDRO : Come , Balthasar , we 'll hear that song again .
BALTHASAR : O , good my lord , tax not so bad a voice To slander music any more than once .
DON PEDRO : It is the witness still of excellency To put a strange face on his own perfection . I pray thee , sing , and let me woo no more .
BALTHASAR : Because you talk of wooing , I will sing ; Since many a wooer doth commence his suit To her he thinks not worthy , yet he wooes , Yet will he swear he loves .
DON PEDRO : Now , pray thee , come ; Or , if thou wilt hold longer argument , Do it in notes .
BALTHASAR : Note this before my notes ; There 's not a note of mine that 's worth the noting .
DON PEDRO : Why , these are very crotchets that he speaks ; Note , notes , forsooth , and nothing . Air
BENEDICK : Now , divine air ! now is his soul ravished ! Is it not strange that sheeps ' guts should hale souls out of men 's bodies ? Well , a horn for my money , when all 's done . The Song
BALTHASAR : Sigh no more , ladies , sigh no more , Men were deceivers ever , One foot in sea and one on shore , To one thing constant never : Then sigh not so , but let them go , And be you blithe and bonny , Converting all your sounds of woe Into Hey nonny , nonny . Sing no more ditties , sing no moe , Of dumps so dull and heavy ; The fraud of men was ever so , Since summer first was leafy : Then sigh not so , & c .
DON PEDRO : By my troth , a good song .
BALTHASAR : And an ill singer , my lord .
DON PEDRO : Ha , no , no , faith ; thou singest well enough for a shift .
BENEDICK : An he had been a dog that should have howled thus , they would have hanged him : and I pray God his bad voice bode no mischief . I had as lief have heard the night-raven , come what plague could have come after it .
DON PEDRO : Yea , marry , dost thou hear , Balthasar ? I pray thee , get us some excellent music ; for to-morrow night we would have it at the Lady Hero 's chamber-window .
BALTHASAR : The best I can , my lord .
DON PEDRO : Do so : farewell . Exit BALTHASAR Come hither , Leonato . What was it you told me of to-day , that your niece Beatrice was in love with Signior Benedick ?
CLAUDIO : O , ay : stalk on. stalk on ; the fowl sits . I did never think that lady would have loved any man .
LEONATO : No , nor I neither ; but most wonderful that she should so dote on Signior Benedick , whom she hath in all outward behaviors seemed ever to abhor .
BENEDICK : Is 't possible ? Sits the wind in that corner ?
LEONATO : By my troth , my lord , I cannot tell what to think of it but that she loves him with an enraged affection : it is past the infinite of thought .
DON PEDRO : May be she doth but counterfeit .
CLAUDIO : Faith , like enough .
LEONATO : O God , counterfeit ! There was never counterfeit of passion came so near the life of passion as she discovers it .
DON PEDRO : Why , what effects of passion shows she ?
CLAUDIO : Bait the hook well ; this fish will bite .
LEONATO : What effects , my lord ? She will sit you , you heard my daughter tell you how .
CLAUDIO : She did , indeed .
