DON JOHN : A proper squire ! And who , and who ? which way looks he ?
BORACHIO : Marry , on Hero , the daughter and heir of Leonato .
DON JOHN : A very forward March-chick ! How came you to this ?
BORACHIO : Being entertained for a perfumer , as I was smoking a musty room , comes me the prince and Claudio , hand in hand in sad conference : I whipt me behind the arras ; and there heard it agreed upon that the prince should woo Hero for himself , and having obtained her , give her to Count Claudio .
DON JOHN : Come , come , let us thither : this may prove food to my displeasure . That young start-up hath all the glory of my overthrow : if I can cross him any way , I bless myself every way . You are both sure , and will assist me ?
CONRADE : To the death , my lord .
DON JOHN : Let us to the great supper : their cheer is the greater that I am subdued . Would the cook were of my mind ! Shall we go prove what 's to be done ?
BORACHIO : We 'll wait upon your lordship . Enter LEONATO , ANTONIO , HERO , BEATRICE , and others
LEONATO : Was not Count John here at supper ?
ANTONIO : I saw him not .
BEATRICE : How tartly that gentleman looks ! I never can see him but I am heart-burned an hour after .
HERO : He is of a very melancholy disposition .
BEATRICE : He were an excellent man that were made just in the midway between him and Benedick : the one is too like an image and says nothing , and the other too like my lady 's eldest son , evermore tattling .
LEONATO : Then half Signior Benedick 's tongue in Count John 's mouth , and half Count John 's melancholy in Signior Benedick 's face , --
BEATRICE : With a good leg and a good foot , uncle , and money enough in his purse , such a man would win any woman in the world , if a ' could get her good-will .
LEONATO : By my troth , niece , thou wilt never get thee a husband , if thou be so shrewd of thy tongue .
ANTONIO : In faith , she 's too curst .
BEATRICE : Too curst is more than curst : I shall lessen God 's sending that way ; for it is said , ' God sends a curst cow short horns ; ' but to a cow too curst he sends none .
LEONATO : So , by being too curst , God will send you no horns .
BEATRICE : Just , if he send me no husband ; for the which blessing I am at him upon my knees every morning and evening . Lord , I could not endure a husband with a beard on his face : I had rather lie in the woollen .
LEONATO : You may light on a husband that hath no beard .
BEATRICE : What should I do with him ? dress him in my apparel and make him my waiting-gentlewoman ? He that hath a beard is more than a youth , and he that hath no beard is less than a man : and he that is more than a youth is not for me , and he that is less than a man , I am not for him : therefore , I will even take sixpence in earnest of the bear-ward , and lead his apes into hell .
LEONATO : Well , then , go you into hell ?
BEATRICE : No , but to the gate ; and there will the devil meet me , like an old cuckold , with horns on his head , and say ' Get you to heaven , Beatrice , get you to heaven ; here 's no place for you maids : ' so deliver I up my apes , and away to Saint Peter for the heavens ; he shows me where the bachelors sit , and there live we as merry as the day is long .
ANTONIO : Well , niece , I trust you will be ruled by your father .
