CLAUDIO : I know not how to pray your patience ; Yet I must speak . Choose your revenge yourself ; Impose me to what penance your invention Can lay upon my sin : yet sinn 'd I not But in mistaking .
DON PEDRO : By my soul , nor I : And yet , to satisfy this good old man , I would bend under any heavy weight That he 'll enjoin me to .
LEONATO : I cannot bid you bid my daughter live ; That were impossible : but , I pray you both , Possess the people in Messina here How innocent she died ; and if your love Can labour ought in sad invention , Hang her an epitaph upon her tomb And sing it to her bones , sing it to-night : To-morrow morning come you to my house , And since you could not be my son-in-law , Be yet my nephew : my brother hath a daughter , Almost the copy of my child that 's dead , And she alone is heir to both of us : Give her the right you should have given her cousin , And so dies my revenge .
CLAUDIO : O noble sir , Your over-kindness doth wring tears from me ! I do embrace your offer ; and dispose For henceforth of poor Claudio .
LEONATO : To-morrow then I will expect your coming ; To-night I take my leave . This naughty man Shall face to face be brought to Margaret , Who I believe was pack 'd in all this wrong , Hired to it by your brother .
BORACHIO : No , by my soul , she was not , Nor knew not what she did when she spoke to me , But always hath been just and virtuous In any thing that I do know by her .
DOGBERRY : Moreover , sir , which indeed is not under white and black , this plaintiff here , the offender , did call me ass : I beseech you , let it be remembered in his punishment . And also , the watch heard them talk of one Deformed : they say be wears a key in his ear and a lock hanging by it , and borrows money in God 's name , the which he hath used so long and never paid that now men grow hard-hearted and will lend nothing for God 's sake : pray you , examine him upon that point .
LEONATO : I thank thee for thy care and honest pains .
DOGBERRY : Your worship speaks like a most thankful and reverend youth ; and I praise God for you .
LEONATO : There 's for thy pains .
DOGBERRY : God save the foundation !
LEONATO : Go , I discharge thee of thy prisoner , and I thank thee .
DOGBERRY : I leave an arrant knave with your worship ; which I beseech your worship to correct yourself , for the example of others . God keep your worship ! I wish your worship well ; God restore you to health ! I humbly give you leave to depart ; and if a merry meeting may be wished , God prohibit it ! Come , neighbour .
LEONATO : Until to-morrow morning , lords , farewell .
ANTONIO : Farewell , my lords : we look for you to-morrow .
DON PEDRO : We will not fail .
CLAUDIO : To-night I 'll mourn with Hero .
LEONATO : Bring you these fellows on . We 'll talk with Margaret , How her acquaintance grew with this lewd fellow . Enter BENEDICK and MARGARET , meeting
BENEDICK : Pray thee , sweet Mistress Margaret , deserve well at my hands by helping me to the speech of Beatrice .
MARGARET : Will you then write me a sonnet in praise of my beauty ?
BENEDICK : In so high a style , Margaret , that no man living shall come over it ; for , in most comely truth , thou deservest it .
MARGARET : To have no man come over me ! why , shall I always keep below stairs ?
BENEDICK : Thy wit is as quick as the greyhound 's mouth ; it catches .
MARGARET : And yours as blunt as the fencer 's foils , which hit , but hurt not .
