MARGARET : I 'll make her come , I warrant you , presently . Exit
HERO : Now , Ursula , when Beatrice doth come , As we do trace this alley up and down , Our talk must only be of Benedick . When I do name him , let it be thy part To praise him more than ever man did merit : My talk to thee must be how Benedick Is sick in love with Beatrice . Of this matter Is little Cupid 's crafty arrow made , That only wounds by hearsay . Enter BEATRICE , behind Now begin ; For look where Beatrice , like a lapwing , runs Close by the ground , to hear our conference .
URSULA : The pleasant 'st angling is to see the fish Cut with her golden oars the silver stream , And greedily devour the treacherous bait : So angle we for Beatrice ; who even now Is couched in the woodbine coverture . Fear you not my part of the dialogue .
HERO : Then go we near her , that her ear lose nothing Of the false sweet bait that we lay for it . Approaching the bower No , truly , Ursula , she is too disdainful ; I know her spirits are as coy and wild As haggerds of the rock .
URSULA : But are you sure That Benedick loves Beatrice so entirely ?
HERO : So says the prince and my new-trothed lord .
URSULA : And did they bid you tell her of it , madam ?
HERO : They did entreat me to acquaint her of it ; But I persuaded them , if they loved Benedick , To wish him wrestle with affection , And never to let Beatrice know of it .
URSULA : Why did you so ? Doth not the gentleman Deserve as full as fortunate a bed As ever Beatrice shall couch upon ?
HERO : O god of love ! I know he doth deserve As much as may be yielded to a man : But Nature never framed a woman 's heart Of prouder stuff than that of Beatrice ; Disdain and scorn ride sparkling in her eyes , Misprising what they look on , and her wit Values itself so highly that to her All matter else seems weak : she cannot love , Nor take no shape nor project of affection , She is so self-endeared .
URSULA : Sure , I think so ; And therefore certainly it were not good She knew his love , lest she make sport at it .
HERO : Why , you speak truth . I never yet saw man , How wise , how noble , young , how rarely featured , But she would spell him backward : if fair-faced , She would swear the gentleman should be her sister ; If black , why , Nature , drawing of an antique , Made a foul blot ; if tall , a lance ill-headed ; If low , an agate very vilely cut ; If speaking , why , a vane blown with all winds ; If silent , why , a block moved with none . So turns she every man the wrong side out And never gives to truth and virtue that Which simpleness and merit purchaseth .
URSULA : Sure , sure , such carping is not commendable .
HERO : No , not to be so odd and from all fashions As Beatrice is , cannot be commendable : But who dare tell her so ? If I should speak , She would mock me into air ; O , she would laugh me Out of myself , press me to death with wit . Therefore let Benedick , like cover 'd fire , Consume away in sighs , waste inwardly : It were a better death than die with mocks , Which is as bad as die with tickling .
URSULA : Yet tell her of it : hear what she will say .
HERO : No ; rather I will go to Benedick And counsel him to fight against his passion . And , truly , I 'll devise some honest slanders To stain my cousin with : one doth not know How much an ill word may empoison liking .
