CLAUDIO : Who wrongs him ?
LEONATO : Marry , thou dost wrong me ; thou dissembler , thou : -- Nay , never lay thy hand upon thy sword ; I fear thee not .
CLAUDIO : Marry , beshrew my hand , If it should give your age such cause of fear : In faith , my hand meant nothing to my sword .
LEONATO : Tush , tush , man ; never fleer and jest at me : I speak not like a dotard nor a fool , As under privilege of age to brag What I have done being young , or what would do Were I not old . Know , Claudio , to thy head , Thou hast so wrong 'd mine innocent child and me That I am forced to lay my reverence by And , with grey hairs and bruise of many days , Do challenge thee to trial of a man . I say thou hast belied mine innocent child ; Thy slander hath gone through and through her heart , And she lies buried with her ancestors ; O , in a tomb where never scandal slept , Save this of hers , framed by thy villany !
CLAUDIO : My villany ?
LEONATO : Thine , Claudio ; thine , I say .
DON PEDRO : You say not right , old man .
LEONATO : My lord , my lord , I 'll prove it on his body , if he dare , Despite his nice fence and his active practise , His May of youth and bloom of lustihood .
CLAUDIO : Away ! I will not have to do with you .
LEONATO : Canst thou so daff me ? Thou hast kill 'd my child : If thou kill 'st me , boy , thou shalt kill a man .
ANTONIO : He shall kill two of us , and men indeed : But that 's no matter ; let him kill one first ; Win me and wear me ; let him answer me . Come , follow me , boy ; come , sir boy , come , follow me : Sir boy , I 'll whip you from your foining fence ; Nay , as I am a gentleman , I will .
LEONATO : Brother , --
ANTONIO : Content yourself . God knows I loved my niece ; And she is dead , slander 'd to death by villains , That dare as well answer a man indeed As I dare take a serpent by the tongue : Boys , apes , braggarts , Jacks , milksops !
LEONATO : Brother Antony , --
ANTONIO : Hold you content . What , man ! I know them , yea , And what they weigh , even to the utmost scruple , -- Scrambling , out-facing , fashion-monging boys , That lie and cog and flout , deprave and slander , Go anticly , show outward hideousness , And speak off half a dozen dangerous words , How they might hurt their enemies , if they durst ; And this is all .
LEONATO : But , brother Antony , --
ANTONIO : Come , ' tis no matter : Do not you meddle ; let me deal in this .
DON PEDRO : Gentlemen both , we will not wake your patience . My heart is sorry for your daughter 's death : But , on my honour , she was charged with nothing But what was true and very full of proof .
LEONATO : My lord , my lord , --
DON PEDRO : I will not hear you .
LEONATO : No ? Come , brother ; away ! I will be heard .
ANTONIO : And shall , or some of us will smart for it .
DON PEDRO : See , see ; here comes the man we went to seek . Enter BENEDICK
CLAUDIO : Now , signior , what news ?
BENEDICK : Good day , my lord .
DON PEDRO : Welcome , signior : you are almost come to part almost a fray .
CLAUDIO : We had like to have had our two noses snapped off with two old men without teeth .
DON PEDRO : Leonato and his brother . What thinkest thou ? Had we fought , I doubt we should have been too young for them .
