BENEDICK : Troth , my lord , I have played the part of Lady Fame . I found him here as melancholy as a lodge in a warren : I told him , and I think I told him true , that your grace had got the good will of this young lady ; and I offered him my company to a willow-tree , either to make him a garland , as being forsaken , or to bind him up a rod , as being worthy to be whipped .
DON PEDRO : To be whipped ! What 's his fault ?
BENEDICK : The flat transgression of a schoolboy , who , being overjoyed with finding a birds ' nest , shows it his companion , and he steals it .
DON PEDRO : Wilt thou make a trust a transgression ? The transgression is in the stealer .
BENEDICK : Yet it had not been amiss the rod had been made , and the garland too ; for the garland he might have worn himself , and the rod he might have bestowed on you , who , as I take it , have stolen his birds ' nest .
DON PEDRO : I will but teach them to sing , and restore them to the owner .
BENEDICK : If their singing answer your saying , by my faith , you say honestly .
DON PEDRO : The Lady Beatrice hath a quarrel to you : the gentleman that danced with her told her she is much wronged by you .
BENEDICK : O , she misused me past the endurance of a block ! an oak but with one green leaf on it would have answered her ; my very visor began to assume life and scold with her . She told me , not thinking I had been myself , that I was the prince 's jester , that I was duller than a great thaw ; huddling jest upon jest with such impossible conveyance upon me that I stood like a man at a mark , with a whole army shooting at me . She speaks poniards , and every word stabs : if her breath were as terrible as her terminations , there were no living near her ; she would infect to the north star . I would not marry her , though she were endowed with all that Adam bad left him before he transgressed : she would have made Hercules have turned spit , yea , and have cleft his club to make the fire too . Come , talk not of her : you shall find her the infernal Ate in good apparel . I would to God some scholar would conjure her ; for certainly , while she is here , a man may live as quiet in hell as in a sanctuary ; and people sin upon purpose , because they would go thither ; so , indeed , all disquiet , horror and perturbation follows her .
DON PEDRO : Look , here she comes . Enter CLAUDIO , BEATRICE , HERO , and LEONATO
BENEDICK : Will your grace command me any service to the world 's end ? I will go on the slightest errand now to the Antipodes that you can devise to send me on ; I will fetch you a tooth-picker now from the furthest inch of Asia , bring you the length of Prester John 's foot , fetch you a hair off the great Cham 's beard , do you any embassage to the Pigmies , rather than hold three words ' conference with this harpy . You have no employment for me ?
DON PEDRO : None , but to desire your good company .
BENEDICK : O God , sir , here 's a dish I love not : I cannot endure my Lady Tongue . Exit
DON PEDRO : Come , lady , come ; you have lost the heart of Signior Benedick .
BEATRICE : Indeed , my lord , he lent it me awhile ; and I gave him use for it , a double heart for his single one : marry , once before he won it of me with false dice , therefore your grace may well say I have lost it .
DON PEDRO : You have put him down , lady , you have put him down .
