First Watchman : We charge you , in the prince 's name , stand !
Second Watchman : Call up the right master constable . We have here recovered the most dangerous piece of lechery that ever was known in the commonwealth .
First Watchman : And one Deformed is one of them : I know him ; a ' wears a lock .
CONRADE : Masters , masters , --
Second Watchman : You 'll be made bring Deformed forth , I warrant you .
CONRADE : Masters , --
First Watchman : Never speak : we charge you let us obey you to go with us .
BORACHIO : We are like to prove a goodly commodity , being taken up of these men 's bills .
CONRADE : A commodity in question , I warrant you . Come , we 'll obey you . Enter HERO , MARGARET , and URSULA
HERO : Good Ursula , wake my cousin Beatrice , and desire her to rise .
URSULA : I will , lady .
HERO : And bid her come hither .
URSULA : Well . Exit
MARGARET : Troth , I think your other rabato were better .
HERO : No , pray thee , good Meg , I 'll wear this .
MARGARET : By my troth , ' s not so good ; and I warrant your cousin will say so .
HERO : My cousin 's a fool , and thou art another : I 'll wear none but this .
MARGARET : I like the new tire within excellently , if the hair were a thought browner ; and your gown 's a most rare fashion , i ' faith . I saw the Duchess of Milan 's gown that they praise so .
HERO : O , that exceeds , they say .
MARGARET : By my troth , ' s but a night-gown in respect of yours : cloth o ' gold , and cuts , and laced with silver , set with pearls , down sleeves , side sleeves , and skirts , round underborne with a bluish tinsel : but for a fine , quaint , graceful and excellent fashion , yours is worth ten on ' t .
HERO : God give me joy to wear it ! for my heart is exceeding heavy .
MARGARET : ' Twill be heavier soon by the weight of a man .
HERO : Fie upon thee ! art not ashamed ?
MARGARET : Of what , lady ? of speaking honourably ? Is not marriage honourable in a beggar ? Is not your lord honourable without marriage ? I think you would have me say , ' saving your reverence , a husband : ' and bad thinking do not wrest true speaking , I 'll offend nobody : is there any harm in ' the heavier for a husband ' ? None , I think , and it be the right husband and the right wife ; otherwise ' tis light , and not heavy : ask my Lady Beatrice else ; here she comes . Enter BEATRICE
HERO : Good morrow , coz .
BEATRICE : Good morrow , sweet Hero .
HERO : Why how now ? do you speak in the sick tune ?
BEATRICE : I am out of all other tune , methinks .
MARGARET : Clap 's into ' Light o ' love ; ' that goes without a burden : do you sing it , and I 'll dance it .
BEATRICE : Ye light o ' love , with your heels ! then , if your husband have stables enough , you 'll see he shall lack no barns .
MARGARET : O illegitimate construction ! I scorn that with my heels .
BEATRICE : ' Tis almost five o 'clock , cousin ; tis time you were ready . By my troth , I am exceeding ill : heigh-ho !
MARGARET : For a hawk , a horse , or a husband ?
BEATRICE : For the letter that begins them all , H.
MARGARET : Well , and you be not turned Turk , there 's no more sailing by the star .
BEATRICE : What means the fool , trow ?
MARGARET : Nothing I ; but God send every one their heart 's desire !
HERO : These gloves the count sent me ; they are an excellent perfume .
BEATRICE : I am stuffed , cousin ; I cannot smell .
