LEONATO : My lord , I am for you , though it cost me ten nights ' watchings .
CLAUDIO : And I , my lord .
DON PEDRO : And you too , gentle Hero ?
HERO : I will do any modest office , my lord , to help my cousin to a good husband .
DON PEDRO : And Benedick is not the unhopefullest husband that I know . Thus far can I praise him ; he is of a noble strain , of approved valour and confirmed honesty . I will teach you how to humour your cousin , that she shall fall in love with Benedick ; and I , with your two helps , will so practise on Benedick that , in despite of his quick wit and his queasy stomach , he shall fall in love with Beatrice . If we can do this , Cupid is no longer an archer : hi s glory shall be ours , for we are the only love-gods . Go in with me , and I will tell you my drift . Enter DON JOHN and BORACHIO
DON JOHN : It is so ; the Count Claudio shall marry the daughter of Leonato .
BORACHIO : Yea , my lord ; but I can cross it .
DON JOHN : Any bar , any cross , any impediment will be medicinable to me : I am sick in displeasure to him , and whatsoever comes athwart his affection ranges evenly with mine . How canst thou cross this marriage ?
BORACHIO : Not honestly , my lord ; but so covertly that no dishonesty shall appear in me .
DON JOHN : Show me briefly how .
BORACHIO : I think I told your lordship a year since , how much I am in the favour of Margaret , the waiting gentlewoman to Hero .
DON JOHN : I remember .
BORACHIO : I can , at any unseasonable instant of the night , appoint her to look out at her lady 's chamber window .
DON JOHN : What life is in that , to be the death of this marriage ?
BORACHIO : The poison of that lies in you to temper . Go you to the prince your brother ; spare not to tell him that he hath wronged his honour in marrying the renowned Claudio--whose estimation do you mightily hold up--to a contaminated stale , such a one as Hero .
DON JOHN : What proof shall I make of that ?
BORACHIO : Proof enough to misuse the prince , to vex Claudio , to undo Hero and kill Leonato . Look you for any other issue ?
DON JOHN : Only to despite them , I will endeavour any thing .
BORACHIO : Go , then ; find me a meet hour to draw Don Pedro and the Count Claudio alone : tell them that you know that Hero loves me ; intend a kind of zeal both to the prince and Claudio , as , --in love of your brother 's honour , who hath made this match , and his friend 's reputation , who is thus like to be cozened with the semblance of a maid , --that you have discovered thus . They will scarcely believe this without trial : offer them instances ; which shall bear no less likelihood than to see me at her chamber-window , hear me call Margaret Hero , hear Margaret term me Claudio ; and bring them to see this the very night before the intended wedding , --for in the meantime I will so fashion the matter that Hero shall be absent , --and there shall appear such seeming truth of Hero 's disloyalty that jealousy shall be called assurance and all the preparation overthrown .
DON JOHN : Grow this to what adverse issue it can , I will put it in practise . Be cunning in the working this , and thy fee is a thousand ducats .
BORACHIO : Be you constant in the accusation , and my cunning shall not shame me .
DON JOHN : I will presently go learn their day of marriage . Enter BENEDICK
BENEDICK : Boy ! Enter Boy
Boy : Signior ?
BENEDICK : In my chamber-window lies a book : bring it hither to me in the orchard .
Boy : I am here already , sir .
