HERO : He is the only man of Italy . Always excepted my dear Claudio .
URSULA : I pray you , be not angry with me , madam , Speaking my fancy : Signior Benedick , For shape , for bearing , argument and valour , Goes foremost in report through Italy .
HERO : Indeed , he hath an excellent good name .
URSULA : His excellence did earn it , ere he had it . When are you married , madam ?
HERO : Why , every day , to-morrow . Come , go in : I 'll show thee some attires , and have thy counsel Which is the best to furnish me to-morrow .
URSULA : She 's limed , I warrant you : we have caught her , madam .
HERO : If it proves so , then loving goes by haps : Some Cupid kills with arrows , some with traps .
BEATRICE : What fire is in mine ears ? Can this be true ? Stand I condemn 'd for pride and scorn so much ? Contempt , farewell ! and maiden pride , adieu ! No glory lives behind the back of such . And , Benedick , love on ; I will requite thee , Taming my wild heart to thy loving hand : If thou dost love , my kindness shall incite thee To bind our loves up in a holy band ; For others say thou dost deserve , and I Believe it better than reportingly . Exit Enter DON PEDRO , CLAUDIO , BENEDICK , and LEONATO
DON PEDRO : I do but stay till your marriage be consummate , and then go I toward Arragon .
CLAUDIO : I 'll bring you thither , my lord , if you 'll vouchsafe me .
DON PEDRO : Nay , that would be as great a soil in the new gloss of your marriage as to show a child his new coat and forbid him to wear it . I will only be bold with Benedick for his company ; for , from the crown of his head to the sole of his foot , he is all mirth : he hath twice or thrice cut Cupid 's bow-string and the little hangman dare not shoot at him ; he hath a heart as sound as a bell and his tongue is the clapper , for what his heart thinks his tongue speaks .
BENEDICK : Gallants , I am not as I have been .
LEONATO : So say I methinks you are sadder .
CLAUDIO : I hope he be in love .
DON PEDRO : Hang him , truant ! there 's no true drop of blood in him , to be truly touched with love : if he be sad , he wants money .
BENEDICK : I have the toothache .
DON PEDRO : Draw it .
BENEDICK : Hang it !
CLAUDIO : You must hang it first , and draw it afterwards .
DON PEDRO : What ! sigh for the toothache ?
LEONATO : Where is but a humour or a worm .
BENEDICK : Well , every one can master a grief but he that has it .
CLAUDIO : Yet say I , he is in love .
DON PEDRO : There is no appearance of fancy in him , unless it be a fancy that he hath to strange disguises ; as , to be a Dutchman today , a Frenchman to-morrow , or in the shape of two countries at once , as , a German from the waist downward , all slops , and a Spaniard from the hip upward , no doublet . Unless he have a fancy to this foolery , as it appears he hath , he is no fool for fancy , as you would have it appear he is .
CLAUDIO : If he be not in love with some woman , there is no believing old signs : a ' brushes his hat o ' mornings ; what should that bode ?
DON PEDRO : Hath any man seen him at the barber 's ?
CLAUDIO : No , but the barber 's man hath been seen with him , and the old ornament of his cheek hath already stuffed tennis-balls .
LEONATO : Indeed , he looks younger than he did , by the loss of a beard .
