BEATRICE : O Lord , he will hang upon him like a disease : he is sooner caught than the pestilence , and the taker runs presently mad . God help the noble Claudio ! if he have caught the Benedick , it will cost him a thousand pound ere a ' be cured .
Messenger : I will hold friends with you , lady .
BEATRICE : Do , good friend .
LEONATO : You will never run mad , niece .
BEATRICE : No , not till a hot January .
Messenger : Don Pedro is approached . Enter DON PEDRO , DON JOHN , CLAUDIO , BENEDICK , and BALTHASAR
DON PEDRO : Good Signior Leonato , you are come to meet your trouble : the fashion of the world is to avoid cost , and you encounter it .
LEONATO : Never came trouble to my house in the likeness of your grace : for trouble being gone , comfort should remain ; but when you depart from me , sorrow abides and happiness takes his leave .
DON PEDRO : You embrace your charge too willingly . I think this is your daughter .
LEONATO : Her mother hath many times told me so .
BENEDICK : Were you in doubt , sir , that you asked her ?
LEONATO : Signior Benedick , no ; for then were you a child .
DON PEDRO : You have it full , Benedick : we may guess by this what you are , being a man . Truly , the lady fathers herself . Be happy , lady ; for you are like an honourable father .
BENEDICK : If Signior Leonato be her father , she would not have his head on her shoulders for all Messina , as like him as she is .
BEATRICE : I wonder that you will still be talking , Signior Benedick : nobody marks you .
BENEDICK : What , my dear Lady Disdain ! are you yet living ?
BEATRICE : Is it possible disdain should die while she hath such meet food to feed it as Signior Benedick ? Courtesy itself must convert to disdain , if you come in her presence .
BENEDICK : Then is courtesy a turncoat . But it is certain I am loved of all ladies , only you excepted : and I would I could find in my heart that I had not a hard heart ; for , truly , I love none .
BEATRICE : A dear happiness to women : they would else have been troubled with a pernicious suitor . I thank God and my cold blood , I am of your humour for that : I had rather hear my dog bark at a crow than a man swear he loves me .
BENEDICK : God keep your ladyship still in that mind ! so some gentleman or other shall ' scape a predestinate scratched face .
BEATRICE : Scratching could not make it worse , an ' twere such a face as yours were .
BENEDICK : Well , you are a rare parrot-teacher .
BEATRICE : A bird of my tongue is better than a beast of yours .
BENEDICK : I would my horse had the speed of your tongue , and so good a continuer . But keep your way , i ' God 's name ; I have done .
BEATRICE : You always end with a jade 's trick : I know you of old .
DON PEDRO : That is the sum of all , Leonato . Signior Claudio and Signior Benedick , my dear friend Leonato hath invited you all . I tell him we shall stay here at the least a month ; and he heartily prays some occasion may detain us longer . I dare swear he is no hypocrite , but prays from his heart .
LEONATO : If you swear , my lord , you shall not be forsworn . To DON JOHN Let me bid you welcome , my lord : being reconciled to the prince your brother , I owe you all duty .
DON JOHN : I thank you : I am not of many words , but I thank you .
LEONATO : Please it your grace lead on ?
DON PEDRO : Your hand , Leonato ; we will go together .
CLAUDIO : Benedick , didst thou note the daughter of Signior Leonato ?
