BEATRICE : O , God help me ! God help me ! how long have you professed apprehension ?
MARGARET : Even since you left it . Doth not my wit become me rarely ?
BEATRICE : It is not seen enough , you should wear it in your cap . By my troth , I am sick .
MARGARET : Get you some of this distilled Carduus Benedictus , and lay it to your heart : it is the only thing for a qualm .
HERO : There thou prickest her with a thistle .
BEATRICE : Benedictus ! why Benedictus ? you have some moral in this Benedictus .
MARGARET : Moral ! no , by my troth , I have no moral meaning ; I meant , plain holy-thistle . You may think perchance that I think you are in love : nay , by 'r lady , I am not such a fool to think what I list , nor I list not to think what I can , nor indeed I cannot think , if I would think my heart out of thinking , that you are in love or that you will be in love or that you can be in love . Yet Benedick was such another , and now is he become a man : he swore he would never marry , and yet now , in despite of his heart , he eats his meat without grudging : and how you may be converted I know not , but methinks you look with your eyes as other women do .
BEATRICE : What pace is this that thy tongue keeps ?
MARGARET : Not a false gallop . Re-enter URSULA
URSULA : Madam , withdraw : the prince , the count , Signior Benedick , Don John , and all the gallants of the town , are come to fetch you to church .
HERO : Help to dress me , good coz , good Meg , good Ursula . Enter LEONATO , with DOGBERRY and VERGES
LEONATO : What would you with me , honest neighbour ?
DOGBERRY : Marry , sir , I would have some confidence with you that decerns you nearly .
LEONATO : Brief , I pray you ; for you see it is a busy time with me .
DOGBERRY : Marry , this it is , sir .
VERGES : Yes , in truth it is , sir .
LEONATO : What is it , my good friends ?
DOGBERRY : Goodman Verges , sir , speaks a little off the matter : an old man , sir , and his wits are not so blunt as , God help , I would desire they were ; but , in faith , honest as the skin between his brows .
VERGES : Yes , I thank God I am as honest as any man living that is an old man and no honester than I.
DOGBERRY : Comparisons are odorous : palabras , neighbour Verges .
LEONATO : Neighbours , you are tedious .
DOGBERRY : It pleases your worship to say so , but we are the poor duke 's officers ; but truly , for mine own part , if I were as tedious as a king , I could find it in my heart to bestow it all of your worship .
LEONATO : All thy tediousness on me , ah ?
DOGBERRY : Yea , an ' twere a thousand pound more than ' tis ; for I hear as good exclamation on your worship as of any man in the city ; and though I be but a poor man , I am glad to hear it .
VERGES : And so am I.
LEONATO : I would fain know what you have to say .
VERGES : Marry , sir , our watch to-night , excepting your worship 's presence , ha ' ta 'en a couple of as arrant knaves as any in Messina .
