LEONATO : How now , brother ! Where is my cousin , your son ? hath he provided this music ?
ANTONIO : He is very busy about it . But , brother , I can tell you strange news that you yet dreamt not of .
LEONATO : Are they good ?
ANTONIO : As the event stamps them : but they have a good cover ; they show well outward . The prince and Count Claudio , walking in a thick-pleached alley in mine orchard , were thus much overheard by a man of mine : the prince discovered to Claudio that he loved my niece your daughter and meant to acknowledge it this night in a dance : and if he found her accordant , he meant to take the present time by the top and instantly break with you of it .
LEONATO : Hath the fellow any wit that told you this ?
ANTONIO : A good sharp fellow : I will send for him ; and question him yourself .
LEONATO : No , no ; we will hold it as a dream till it appear itself : but I will acquaint my daughter withal , that she may be the better prepared for an answer , if peradventure this be true . Go you and tell her of it . Enter Attendants Cousins , you know what you have to do . O , I cry you mercy , friend ; go you with me , and I will use your skill . Good cousin , have a care this busy time . Enter DON JOHN and CONRADE
CONRADE : What the good-year , my lord ! why are you thus out of measure sad ?
DON JOHN : There is no measure in the occasion that breeds ; therefore the sadness is without limit .
CONRADE : You should hear reason .
DON JOHN : And when I have heard it , what blessing brings it ?
CONRADE : If not a present remedy , at least a patient sufferance .
DON JOHN : I wonder that thou , being , as thou sayest thou art , born under Saturn , goest about to apply a moral medicine to a mortifying mischief . I cannot hide what I am : I must be sad when I have cause and smile at no man 's jests , eat when I have stomach and wait for no man 's leisure , sleep when I am drowsy and tend on no man 's business , laugh when I am merry and claw no man in his humour .
CONRADE : Yea , but you must not make the full show of this till you may do it without controlment . You have of late stood out against your brother , and he hath ta 'en you newly into his grace ; where it is impossible you should take true root but by the fair weather that you make yourself : it is needful that you frame the season for your own harvest .
DON JOHN : I had rather be a canker in a hedge than a rose in his grace , and it better fits my blood to be disdained of all than to fashion a carriage to rob love from any : in this , though I cannot be said to be a flattering honest man , it must not be denied but I am a plain-dealing villain . I am trusted with a muzzle and enfranchised with a clog ; therefore I have decreed not to sing in my cage . If I had my mouth , I would bite ; if I had my liberty , I would do my liking : in the meantime let me be that I am and seek not to alter me .
CONRADE : Can you make no use of your discontent ?
DON JOHN : I make all use of it , for I use it only . Who comes here ? Enter BORACHIO What news , Borachio ?
BORACHIO : I came yonder from a great supper : the prince your brother is royally entertained by Leonato : and I can give you intelligence of an intended marriage .
DON JOHN : Will it serve for any model to build mischief on ? What is he for a fool that betroths himself to unquietness ?
BORACHIO : Marry , it is your brother 's right hand .
DON JOHN : Who ? the most exquisite Claudio ?
