HERO : Is my lord well , that he doth speak so wide ?
LEONATO : Sweet prince , why speak not you ?
DON PEDRO : What should I speak ? I stand dishonour 'd , that have gone about To link my dear friend to a common stale .
LEONATO : Are these things spoken , or do I but dream ?
DON JOHN : Sir , they are spoken , and these things are true .
BENEDICK : This looks not like a nuptial .
HERO : True ! O God !
CLAUDIO : Leonato , stand I here ? Is this the prince ? is this the prince 's brother ? Is this face Hero 's ? are our eyes our own ?
LEONATO : All this is so : but what of this , my lord ?
CLAUDIO : Let me but move one question to your daughter ; And , by that fatherly and kindly power That you have in her , bid her answer truly .
LEONATO : I charge thee do so , as thou art my child .
HERO : O , God defend me ! how am I beset ! What kind of catechising call you this ?
CLAUDIO : To make you answer truly to your name .
HERO : Is it not Hero ? Who can blot that name With any just reproach ?
CLAUDIO : Marry , that can Hero ; Hero itself can blot out Hero 's virtue . What man was he talk 'd with you yesternight Out at your window betwixt twelve and one ? Now , if you are a maid , answer to this .
HERO : I talk 'd with no man at that hour , my lord .
DON PEDRO : Why , then are you no maiden . Leonato , I am sorry you must hear : upon mine honour , Myself , my brother and this grieved count Did see her , hear her , at that hour last night Talk with a ruffian at her chamber-window Who hath indeed , most like a liberal villain , Confess 'd the vile encounters they have had A thousand times in secret .
DON JOHN : Fie , fie ! they are not to be named , my lord , Not to be spoke of ; There is not chastity enough in language Without offence to utter them . Thus , pretty lady , I am sorry for thy much misgovernment .
CLAUDIO : O Hero , what a Hero hadst thou been , If half thy outward graces had been placed About thy thoughts and counsels of thy heart ! But fare thee well , most foul , most fair ! farewell , Thou pure impiety and impious purity ! For thee I 'll lock up all the gates of love , And on my eyelids shall conjecture hang , To turn all beauty into thoughts of harm , And never shall it more be gracious .
LEONATO : Hath no man 's dagger here a point for me ? HERO swoons
BEATRICE : Why , how now , cousin ! wherefore sink you down ?
DON JOHN : Come , let us go . These things , come thus to light , Smother her spirits up .
BENEDICK : How doth the lady ?
BEATRICE : Dead , I think . Help , uncle ! Hero ! why , Hero ! Uncle ! Signior Benedick ! Friar !
LEONATO : O Fate ! take not away thy heavy hand . Death is the fairest cover for her shame That may be wish 'd for .
BEATRICE : How now , cousin Hero !
FRIAR FRANCIS : Have comfort , lady .
LEONATO : Dost thou look up ?
FRIAR FRANCIS : Yea , wherefore should she not ?
