CLAUDIO : We have been up and down to seek thee ; for we are high-proof melancholy and would fain have it beaten away . Wilt thou use thy wit ?
BENEDICK : It is in my scabbard : shall I draw it ?
DON PEDRO : Dost thou wear thy wit by thy side ?
CLAUDIO : Never any did so , though very many have been beside their wit . I will bid thee draw , as we do the minstrels ; draw , to pleasure us .
DON PEDRO : As I am an honest man , he looks pale . Art thou sick , or angry ?
CLAUDIO : What , courage , man ! What though care killed a cat , thou hast mettle enough in thee to kill care .
BENEDICK : Sir , I shall meet your wit in the career , and you charge it against me . I pray you choose another subject .
CLAUDIO : Nay , then , give him another staff : this last was broke cross .
DON PEDRO : By this light , he changes more and more : I think he be angry indeed .
CLAUDIO : If he be , he knows how to turn his girdle .
BENEDICK : Shall I speak a word in your ear ?
CLAUDIO : God bless me from a challenge !
BENEDICK : You are a villain ; I jest not : I will make it good how you dare , with what you dare , and when you dare . Do me right , or I will protest your cowardice . You have killed a sweet lady , and her death shall fall heavy on you . Let me hear from you .
CLAUDIO : Well , I will meet you , so I may have good cheer .
DON PEDRO : What , a feast , a feast ?
CLAUDIO : I ' faith , I thank him ; he hath bid me to a calf 's head and a capon ; the which if I do not carve most curiously , say my knife 's naught . Shall I not find a woodcock too ?
BENEDICK : Sir , your wit ambles well ; it goes easily .
DON PEDRO : I 'll tell thee how Beatrice praised thy wit the other day . I said , thou hadst a fine wit : ' True , ' said she , ' a fine little one . ' ' No , ' said I , ' a great wit : ' ' Right , ' says she , ' a great gross one . ' ' Nay , ' said I , ' a good wit : ' ' Just , ' said she , ' it hurts nobody . ' ' Nay , ' said I , ' the gentleman is wise : ' ' Certain , ' said she , ' a wise gentleman . ' ' Nay , ' said I , ' he hath the tongues : ' ' That I believe , ' said she , ' for he swore a thing to me on Monday night , which he forswore on Tuesday morning ; there 's a double tongue ; there 's two tongues . ' Thus did she , an hour together , transshape thy particular virtues : yet at last she concluded with a sigh , thou wast the properest man in Italy .
CLAUDIO : For the which she wept heartily and said she cared not .
DON PEDRO : Yea , that she did : but yet , for all that , an if she did not hate him deadly , she would love him dearly : the old man 's daughter told us all .
CLAUDIO : All , all ; and , moreover , God saw him when he was hid in the garden .
DON PEDRO : But when shall we set the savage bull 's horns on the sensible Benedick 's head ?
CLAUDIO : Yea , and text underneath , ' Here dwells Benedick the married man ' ?
