DON PEDRO : Why , how now , count ! wherefore are you sad ?
CLAUDIO : Not sad , my lord .
DON PEDRO : How then ? sick ?
CLAUDIO : Neither , my lord .
BEATRICE : The count is neither sad , nor sick , nor merry , nor well ; but civil count , civil as an orange , and something of that jealous complexion .
DON PEDRO : I ' faith , lady , I think your blazon to be true ; though , I 'll be sworn , if he be so , his conceit is false . Here , Claudio , I have wooed in thy name , and fair Hero is won : I have broke with her father , and his good will obtained : name the day of marriage , and God give thee joy !
LEONATO : Count , take of me my daughter , and with her my fortunes : his grace hath made the match , and an grace say Amen to it .
BEATRICE : Speak , count , ' tis your cue .
CLAUDIO : Silence is the perfectest herald of joy : I were but little happy , if I could say how much . Lady , as you are mine , I am yours : I give away myself for you and dote upon the exchange .
BEATRICE : Speak , cousin ; or , if you cannot , stop his mouth with a kiss , and let not him speak neither .
DON PEDRO : In faith , lady , you have a merry heart .
BEATRICE : Yea , my lord ; I thank it , poor fool , it keeps on the windy side of care . My cousin tells him in his ear that he is in her heart .
CLAUDIO : And so she doth , cousin .
BEATRICE : Good Lord , for alliance ! Thus goes every one to the world but I , and I am sunburnt ; I may sit in a corner and cry heigh-ho for a husband !
DON PEDRO : Lady Beatrice , I will get you one .
BEATRICE : I would rather have one of your father 's getting . Hath your grace ne 'er a brother like you ? Your father got excellent husbands , if a maid could come by them .
DON PEDRO : Will you have me , lady ?
BEATRICE : No , my lord , unless I might have another for working-days : your grace is too costly to wear every day . But , I beseech your grace , pardon me : I was born to speak all mirth and no matter .
DON PEDRO : Your silence most offends me , and to be merry best becomes you ; for , out of question , you were born in a merry hour .
BEATRICE : No , sure , my lord , my mother cried ; but then there was a star danced , and under that was I born . Cousins , God give you joy !
LEONATO : Niece , will you look to those things I told you of ?
BEATRICE : I cry you mercy , uncle . By your grace 's pardon . Exit
DON PEDRO : By my troth , a pleasant-spirited lady .
LEONATO : There 's little of the melancholy element in her , my lord : she is never sad but when she sleeps , and not ever sad then ; for I have heard my daughter say , she hath often dreamed of unhappiness and waked herself with laughing .
DON PEDRO : She cannot endure to hear tell of a husband .
LEONATO : O , by no means : she mocks all her wooers out of suit .
DON PEDRO : She were an excellent wife for Benedict .
LEONATO : O Lord , my lord , if they were but a week married , they would talk themselves mad .
DON PEDRO : County Claudio , when mean you to go to church ?
CLAUDIO : To-morrow , my lord : time goes on crutches till love have all his rites .
LEONATO : Not till Monday , my dear son , which is hence a just seven-night ; and a time too brief , too , to have all things answer my mind .
