DON PEDRO : He is in earnest .
CLAUDIO : In most profound earnest ; and , I 'll warrant you , for the love of Beatrice .
DON PEDRO : And hath challenged thee .
CLAUDIO : Most sincerely .
DON PEDRO : What a pretty thing man is when he goes in his doublet and hose and leaves off his wit !
CLAUDIO : He is then a giant to an ape ; but then is an ape a doctor to such a man .
DON PEDRO : But , soft you , let me be : pluck up , my heart , and be sad . Did he not say , my brother was fled ? Enter DOGBERRY , VERGES , and the Watch , with CONRADE and BORACHIO
DOGBERRY : Come you , sir : if justice cannot tame you , she shall ne 'er weigh more reasons in her balance : nay , an you be a cursing hypocrite once , you must be looked to .
DON PEDRO : How now ? two of my brother 's men bound ! Borachio one !
CLAUDIO : Hearken after their offence , my lord .
DON PEDRO : Officers , what offence have these men done ?
DOGBERRY : Marry , sir , they have committed false report ; moreover , they have spoken untruths ; secondarily , they are slanders ; sixth and lastly , they have belied a lady ; thirdly , they have verified unjust things ; and , to conclude , they are lying knaves .
DON PEDRO : First , I ask thee what they have done ; thirdly , I ask thee what 's their offence ; sixth and lastly , why they are committed ; and , to conclude , what you lay to their charge .
CLAUDIO : Rightly reasoned , and in his own division : and , by my troth , there 's one meaning well suited .
DON PEDRO : Who have you offended , masters , that you are thus bound to your answer ? this learned constable is too cunning to be understood : what 's your offence ?
BORACHIO : Sweet prince , let me go no farther to mine answer : do you hear me , and let this count kill me . I have deceived even your very eyes : what your wisdoms could not discover , these shallow fools have brought to light : who in the night overheard me confessing to this man how Don John your brother incensed me to slander the Lady Hero , how you were brought into the orchard and saw me court Margaret in Hero 's garments , how you disgraced her , when you should marry her : my villany they have upon record ; which I had rather seal with my death than repeat over to my shame . The lady is dead upon mine and my master 's false accusation ; and , briefly , I desire nothing but the reward of a villain .
DON PEDRO : Runs not this speech like iron through your blood ?
CLAUDIO : I have drunk poison whiles he utter 'd it .
DON PEDRO : But did my brother set thee on to this ?
BORACHIO : Yea , and paid me richly for the practise of it .
DON PEDRO : He is composed and framed of treachery : And fled he is upon this villany .
CLAUDIO : Sweet Hero ! now thy image doth appear In the rare semblance that I loved it first .
DOGBERRY : Come , bring away the plaintiffs : by this time our sexton hath reformed Signior Leonato of the matter : and , masters , do not forget to specify , when time and place shall serve , that I am an ass .
VERGES : Here , here comes master Signior Leonato , and the Sexton too . Re-enter LEONATO and ANTONIO , with the Sexton
LEONATO : Which is the villain ? let me see his eyes , That , when I note another man like him , I may avoid him : which of these is he ?
BORACHIO : If you would know your wronger , look on me .
LEONATO : Art thou the slave that with thy breath hast kill 'd Mine innocent child ?
BORACHIO : Yea , even I alone .
