LEONATO : I learn in this letter that Don Peter of Arragon comes this night to Messina .
Messenger : He is very near by this : he was not three leagues off when I left him .
LEONATO : How many gentlemen have you lost in this action ?
Messenger : But few of any sort , and none of name .
LEONATO : A victory is twice itself when the achiever brings home full numbers . I find here that Don Peter hath bestowed much honour on a young Florentine called Claudio .
Messenger : Much deserved on his part and equally remembered by Don Pedro : he hath borne himself beyond the promise of his age , doing , in the figure of a lamb , the feats of a lion : he hath indeed better bettered expectation than you must expect of me to tell you how .
LEONATO : He hath an uncle here in Messina will be very much glad of it .
Messenger : I have already delivered him letters , and there appears much joy in him ; even so much that joy could not show itself modest enough without a badge of bitterness .
LEONATO : Did he break out into tears ?
Messenger : In great measure .
LEONATO : A kind overflow of kindness : there are no faces truer than those that are so washed . How much better is it to weep at joy than to joy at weeping !
BEATRICE : I pray you , is Signior Mountanto returned from the wars or no ?
Messenger : I know none of that name , lady : there was none such in the army of any sort .
LEONATO : What is he that you ask for , niece ?
HERO : My cousin means Signior Benedick of Padua .
Messenger : O , he 's returned ; and as pleasant as ever he was .
BEATRICE : He set up his bills here in Messina and challenged Cupid at the flight ; and my uncle 's fool , reading the challenge , subscribed for Cupid , and challenged him at the bird-bolt . I pray you , how many hath he killed and eaten in these wars ? But how many hath he killed ? for indeed I promised to eat all of his killing .
LEONATO : Faith , niece , you tax Signior Benedick too much ; but he 'll be meet with you , I doubt it not .
Messenger : He hath done good service , lady , in these wars .
BEATRICE : You had musty victual , and he hath holp to eat it : he is a very valiant trencherman ; he hath an excellent stomach .
Messenger : And a good soldier too , lady .
BEATRICE : And a good soldier to a lady : but what is he to a lord ?
Messenger : A lord to a lord , a man to a man ; stuffed with all honourable virtues .
BEATRICE : It is so , indeed ; he is no less than a stuffed man : but for the stuffing , --well , we are all mortal .
LEONATO : You must not , sir , mistake my niece . There is a kind of merry war betwixt Signior Benedick and her : they never meet but there 's a skirmish of wit between them .
BEATRICE : Alas ! he gets nothing by that . In our last conflict four of his five wits went halting off , and now is the whole man governed with one : so that if he have wit enough to keep himself warm , let him bear it for a difference between himself and his horse ; for it is all the wealth that he hath left , to be known a reasonable creature . Who is his companion now ? He hath every month a new sworn brother .
Messenger : Is 't possible ?
BEATRICE : Very easily possible : he wears his faith but as the fashion of his hat ; it ever changes with the next block .
Messenger : I see , lady , the gentleman is not in your books .
BEATRICE : No ; an he were , I would burn my study . But , I pray you , who is his companion ? Is there no young squarer now that will make a voyage with him to the devil ?
