BENEDICK : Not I , believe me .
BEATRICE : Did he never make you laugh ?
BENEDICK : I pray you , what is he ?
BEATRICE : Why , he is the prince 's jester : a very dull fool ; only his gift is in devising impossible slanders : none but libertines delight in him ; and the commendation is not in his wit , but in his villany ; for he both pleases men and angers them , and then they laugh at him and beat him . I am sure he is in the fleet : I would he had boarded me .
BENEDICK : When I know the gentleman , I 'll tell him what you say .
BEATRICE : Do , do : he 'll but break a comparison or two on me ; which , peradventure not marked or not laughed at , strikes him into melancholy ; and then there 's a partridge wing saved , for the fool will eat no supper that night . Music We must follow the leaders .
BENEDICK : In every good thing .
BEATRICE : Nay , if they lead to any ill , I will leave them at the next turning . Dance . Then exeunt all except DON JOHN , BORACHIO , and CLAUDIO
DON JOHN : Sure my brother is amorous on Hero and hath withdrawn her father to break with him about it . The ladies follow her and but one visor remains .
BORACHIO : And that is Claudio : I know him by his bearing .
DON JOHN : Are not you Signior Benedick ?
CLAUDIO : You know me well ; I am he .
DON JOHN : Signior , you are very near my brother in his love : he is enamoured on Hero ; I pray you , dissuade him from her : she is no equal for his birth : you may do the part of an honest man in it .
CLAUDIO : How know you he loves her ?
DON JOHN : I heard him swear his affection .
BORACHIO : So did I too ; and he swore he would marry her to-night .
DON JOHN : Come , let us to the banquet .
CLAUDIO : Thus answer I in the name of Benedick , But hear these ill news with the ears of Claudio . ' Tis certain so ; the prince wooes for himself . Friendship is constant in all other things Save in the office and affairs of love : Therefore , all hearts in love use their own tongues ; Let every eye negotiate for itself And trust no agent ; for beauty is a witch Against whose charms faith melteth into blood . This is an accident of hourly proof , Which I mistrusted not . Farewell , therefore , Hero ! Re-enter BENEDICK
BENEDICK : Count Claudio ?
CLAUDIO : Yea , the same .
BENEDICK : Come , will you go with me ?
CLAUDIO : Whither ?
BENEDICK : Even to the next willow , about your own business , county . What fashion will you wear the garland of ? about your neck , like an usurer 's chain ? or under your arm , like a lieutenant 's scarf ? You must wear it one way , for the prince hath got your Hero .
CLAUDIO : I wish him joy of her .
BENEDICK : Why , that 's spoken like an honest drovier : so they sell bullocks . But did you think the prince would have served you thus ?
CLAUDIO : I pray you , leave me .
BENEDICK : Ho ! now you strike like the blind man : ' twas the boy that stole your meat , and you 'll beat the post .
CLAUDIO : If it will not be , I 'll leave you . Exit
BENEDICK : Alas , poor hurt fowl ! now will he creep into sedges . But that my Lady Beatrice should know me , and not know me ! The prince 's fool ! Ha ? It may be I go under that title because I am merry . Yea , but so I am apt to do myself wrong ; I am not so reputed : it is the base , though bitter , disposition of Beatrice that puts the world into her person and so gives me out . Well , I 'll be revenged as I may . Re-enter DON PEDRO
