CLAUDIO : Is she not a modest young lady ?
BENEDICK : Do you question me , as an honest man should do , for my simple true judgment ; or would you have me speak after my custom , as being a professed tyrant to their sex ?
CLAUDIO : No ; I pray thee speak in sober judgment .
BENEDICK : Why , i ' faith , methinks she 's too low for a high praise , too brown for a fair praise and too little for a great praise : only this commendation I can afford her , that were she other than she is , she were unhandsome ; and being no other but as she is , I do not like her .
CLAUDIO : Thou thinkest I am in sport : I pray thee tell me truly how thou likest her .
BENEDICK : Would you buy her , that you inquire after her ?
CLAUDIO : Can the world buy such a jewel ?
BENEDICK : Yea , and a case to put it into . But speak you this with a sad brow ? or do you play the flouting Jack , to tell us Cupid is a good hare-finder and Vulcan a rare carpenter ? Come , in what key shall a man take you , to go in the song ?
CLAUDIO : In mine eye she is the sweetest lady that ever I looked on .
BENEDICK : I can see yet without spectacles and I see no such matter : there 's her cousin , an she were not possessed with a fury , exceeds her as much in beauty as the first of May doth the last of December . But I hope you have no intent to turn husband , have you ?
CLAUDIO : I would scarce trust myself , though I had sworn the contrary , if Hero would be my wife .
BENEDICK : Is 't come to this ? In faith , hath not the world one man but he will wear his cap with suspicion ? Shall I never see a bachelor of three-score again ? Go to , i ' faith ; an thou wilt needs thrust thy neck into a yoke , wear the print of it and sigh away Sundays . Look Don Pedro is returned to seek you . Re-enter DON PEDRO
DON PEDRO : What secret hath held you here , that you followed not to Leonato 's ?
BENEDICK : I would your grace would constrain me to tell .
DON PEDRO : I charge thee on thy allegiance .
BENEDICK : You hear , Count Claudio : I can be secret as a dumb man ; I would have you think so ; but , on my allegiance , mark you this , on my allegiance . He is in love . With who ? now that is your grace 's part . Mark how short his answer is ; --With Hero , Leonato 's short daughter .
CLAUDIO : If this were so , so were it uttered .
BENEDICK : Like the old tale , my lord : ' it is not so , nor ' twas not so , but , indeed , God forbid it should be so . ' 
CLAUDIO : If my passion change not shortly , God forbid it should be otherwise .
DON PEDRO : Amen , if you love her ; for the lady is very well worthy .
CLAUDIO : You speak this to fetch me in , my lord .
DON PEDRO : By my troth , I speak my thought .
CLAUDIO : And , in faith , my lord , I spoke mine .
BENEDICK : And , by my two faiths and troths , my lord , I spoke mine .
CLAUDIO : That I love her , I feel .
DON PEDRO : That she is worthy , I know .
BENEDICK : That I neither feel how she should be loved nor know how she should be worthy , is the opinion that fire cannot melt out of me : I will die in it at the stake .
DON PEDRO : Thou wast ever an obstinate heretic in the despite of beauty .
CLAUDIO : And never could maintain his part but in the force of his will .
