DON PEDRO : And so will he do ; for the man doth fear God , howsoever it seems not in him by some large jests he will make . Well I am sorry for your niece . Shall we go seek Benedick , and tell him of her love ?
CLAUDIO : Never tell him , my lord : let her wear it out with good counsel .
LEONATO : Nay , that 's impossible : she may wear her heart out first .
DON PEDRO : Well , we will hear further of it by your daughter : let it cool the while . I love Benedick well ; and I could wish he would modestly examine himself , to see how much he is unworthy so good a lady .
LEONATO : My lord , will you walk ? dinner is ready .
CLAUDIO : If he do not dote on her upon this , I will never trust my expectation .
DON PEDRO : Let there be the same net spread for her ; and that must your daughter and her gentlewomen carry . The sport will be , when they hold one an opinion of another 's dotage , and no such matter : that 's the scene that I would see , which will be merely a dumb-show . Let us send her to call him in to dinner .
BENEDICK : This can be no trick : the conference was sadly borne . They have the truth of this from Hero . They seem to pity the lady : it seems her affections have their full bent . Love me ! why , it must be requited . I hear how I am censured : they say I will bear myself proudly , if I perceive the love come from her ; they say too that she will rather die than give any sign of affection . I did never think to marry : I must not seem proud : happy are they that hear their detractions and can put them to mending . They say the lady is fair ; ' tis a truth , I can bear them witness ; and virtuous ; ' tis so , I cannot reprove it ; and wise , but for loving me ; by my troth , it is no addition to her wit , nor no great argument of her folly , for I will be horribly in love with her . I may chance have some odd quirks and remnants of wit broken on me , because I have railed so long against marriage : but doth not the appetite alter ? a man loves the meat in his youth that he cannot endure in his age . Shall quips and sentences and these paper bullets of the brain awe a man from the career of his humour ? No , the world must be peopled . When I said I would die a bachelor , I did not think I should live till I were married . Here comes Beatrice . By this day ! she 's a fair lady : I do spy some marks of love in her . Enter BEATRICE
BEATRICE : Against my will I am sent to bid you come in to dinner .
BENEDICK : Fair Beatrice , I thank you for your pains .
BEATRICE : I took no more pains for those thanks than you take pains to thank me : if it had been painful , I would not have come .
BENEDICK : You take pleasure then in the message ?
BEATRICE : Yea , just so much as you may take upon a knife 's point and choke a daw withal . You have no stomach , signior : fare you well . Exit
BENEDICK : Ha ! ' Against my will I am sent to bid you come in to dinner ; ' there 's a double meaning in that ' I took no more pains for those thanks than you took pains to thank me . ' that 's as much as to say , Any pains that I take for you is as easy as thanks . If I do not take pity of her , I am a villain ; if I do not love her , I am a Jew . I will go get her picture . Exit Enter HERO , MARGARET , and URSULA
