LEONATO : I would have sworn it had , my lord ; especially against Benedick .
BENEDICK : I should think this a gull , but that the white-bearded fellow speaks it : knavery cannot , sure , hide himself in such reverence .
CLAUDIO : He hath ta 'en the infection : hold it up .
DON PEDRO : Hath she made her affection known to Benedick ?
LEONATO : No ; and swears she never will : that 's her torment .
CLAUDIO : ' Tis true , indeed ; so your daughter says : ' Shall I , ' says she , ' that have so oft encountered him with scorn , write to him that I love him ? '
LEONATO : This says she now when she is beginning to write to him ; for she 'll be up twenty times a night , and there will she sit in her smock till she have writ a sheet of paper : my daughter tells us all .
CLAUDIO : Now you talk of a sheet of paper , I remember a pretty jest your daughter told us of .
LEONATO : O , when she had writ it and was reading it over , she found Benedick and Beatrice between the sheet ?
CLAUDIO : That .
LEONATO : O , she tore the letter into a thousand halfpence ; railed at herself , that she should be so immodest to write to one that she knew would flout her ; ' I measure him , ' says she , ' by my own spirit ; for I should flout him , if he writ to me ; yea , though I love him , I should . ' 
CLAUDIO : Then down upon her knees she falls , weeps , sobs , beats her heart , tears her hair , prays , curses ; ' O sweet Benedick ! God give me patience ! '
LEONATO : She doth indeed ; my daughter says so : and the ecstasy hath so much overborne her that my daughter is sometime afeared she will do a desperate outrage to herself : it is very true .
DON PEDRO : It were good that Benedick knew of it by some other , if she will not discover it .
CLAUDIO : To what end ? He would make but a sport of it and torment the poor lady worse .
DON PEDRO : An he should , it were an alms to hang him . She 's an excellent sweet lady ; and , out of all suspicion , she is virtuous .
CLAUDIO : And she is exceeding wise .
DON PEDRO : In every thing but in loving Benedick .
LEONATO : O , my lord , wisdom and blood combating in so tender a body , we have ten proofs to one that blood hath the victory . I am sorry for her , as I have just cause , being her uncle and her guardian .
DON PEDRO : I would she had bestowed this dotage on me : I would have daffed all other respects and made her half myself . I pray you , tell Benedick of it , and hear what a ' will say .
LEONATO : Were it good , think you ?
CLAUDIO : Hero thinks surely she will die ; for she says she will die , if he love her not , and she will die , ere she make her love known , and she will die , if he woo her , rather than she will bate one breath of her accustomed crossness .
DON PEDRO : She doth well : if she should make tender of her love , ' tis very possible he 'll scorn it ; for the man , as you know all , hath a contemptible spirit .
CLAUDIO : He is a very proper man .
DON PEDRO : He hath indeed a good outward happiness .
CLAUDIO : Before God ! and , in my mind , very wise .
DON PEDRO : He doth indeed show some sparks that are like wit .
CLAUDIO : And I take him to be valiant .
DON PEDRO : As Hector , I assure you : and in the managing of quarrels you may say he is wise ; for either he avoids them with great discretion , or undertakes them with a most Christian-like fear .
