BENEDICK : Tarry , good Beatrice . By this hand , I love thee .
BEATRICE : Use it for my love some other way than swearing by it .
BENEDICK : Think you in your soul the Count Claudio hath wronged Hero ?
BEATRICE : Yea , as sure as I have a thought or a soul .
BENEDICK : Enough , I am engaged ; I will challenge him . I will kiss your hand , and so I leave you . By this hand , Claudio shall render me a dear account . As you hear of me , so think of me . Go , comfort your cousin : I must say she is dead : and so , farewell . Enter DOGBERRY , VERGES , and Sexton , in gowns ; and the Watch , with CONRADE and BORACHIO
DOGBERRY : Is our whole dissembly appeared ?
VERGES : O , a stool and a cushion for the sexton .
Sexton : Which be the malefactors ?
DOGBERRY : Marry , that am I and my partner .
VERGES : Nay , that 's certain ; we have the exhibition to examine .
Sexton : But which are the offenders that are to be examined ? let them come before master constable .
DOGBERRY : Yea , marry , let them come before me . What is your name , friend ?
BORACHIO : Borachio .
DOGBERRY : Pray , write down , Borachio . Yours , sirrah ?
CONRADE : I am a gentleman , sir , and my name is Conrade .
DOGBERRY : Write down , master gentleman Conrade . Masters , do you serve God ?
CONRADE BORACHIO : Yea , sir , we hope .
DOGBERRY : Write down , that they hope they serve God : and write God first ; for God defend but God should go before such villains ! Masters , it is proved already that you are little better than false knaves ; and it will go near to be thought so shortly . How answer you for yourselves ?
CONRADE : Marry , sir , we say we are none .
DOGBERRY : A marvellous witty fellow , I assure you : but I will go about with him . Come you hither , sirrah ; a word in your ear : sir , I say to you , it is thought you are false knaves .
BORACHIO : Sir , I say to you we are none .
DOGBERRY : Well , stand aside . ' Fore God , they are both in a tale . Have you writ down , that they are none ?
Sexton : Master constable , you go not the way to examine : you must call forth the watch that are their accusers .
DOGBERRY : Yea , marry , that 's the eftest way . Let the watch come forth . Masters , I charge you , in the prince 's name , accuse these men .
First Watchman : This man said , sir , that Don John , the prince 's brother , was a villain .
DOGBERRY : Write down Prince John a villain . Why , this is flat perjury , to call a prince 's brother villain .
BORACHIO : Master constable , --
DOGBERRY : Pray thee , fellow , peace : I do not like thy look , I promise thee .
Sexton : What heard you him say else ?
Second Watchman : Marry , that he had received a thousand ducats of Don John for accusing the Lady Hero wrongfully .
DOGBERRY : Flat burglary as ever was committed .
VERGES : Yea , by mass , that it is .
Sexton : What else , fellow ?
First Watchman : And that Count Claudio did mean , upon his words , to disgrace Hero before the whole assembly. and not marry her .
DOGBERRY : O villain ! thou wilt be condemned into everlasting redemption for this .
Sexton : What else ?
Watchman : This is all .
Sexton : And this is more , masters , than you can deny . Prince John is this morning secretly stolen away ; Hero was in this manner accused , in this very manner refused , and upon the grief of this suddenly died . Master constable , let these men be bound , and brought to Leonato 's : I will go before and show him their examination . Exit
