THALIARD : My lord , If I can get him within my pistol 's length , I 'll make him sure enough : so , farewell to your highness .
ANTIOCHUS : Thaliard , adieu ! Exit THALIARD Till Pericles be dead , My heart can lend no succor to my head . Exit Enter PERICLES
PERICLES : Let none disturb us.--Why should this change of thoughts , The sad companion , dull-eyed melancholy , Be my so used a guest as not an hour , In the day 's glorious walk , or peaceful night , The tomb where grief should sleep , can breed me quiet ? Here pleasures court mine eyes , and mine eyes shun them , And danger , which I fear 'd , is at Antioch , Whose aim seems far too short to hit me here : Yet neither pleasure 's art can joy my spirits , Nor yet the other 's distance comfort me . Then it is thus : the passions of the mind , That have their first conception by mis-dread , Have after-nourishment and life by care ; And what was first but fear what might be done , Grows elder now and cares it be not done . And so with me : the great Antiochus , ' Gainst whom I am too little to contend , Since he 's so great can make his will his act , Will think me speaking , though I swear to silence ; Nor boots it me to say I honour him . If he suspect I may dishonour him : And what may make him blush in being known , He 'll stop the course by which it might be known ; With hostile forces he 'll o 'erspread the land , And with the ostent of war will look so huge , Amazement shall drive courage from the state ; Our men be vanquish 'd ere they do resist , And subjects punish 'd that ne 'er thought offence : Which care of them , not pity of myself , Who am no more but as the tops of trees , Which fence the roots they grow by and defend them , Makes both my body pine and soul to languish , And punish that before that he would punish . Enter HELICANUS , with other Lords
First Lord : Joy and all comfort in your sacred breast !
Second Lord : And keep your mind , till you return to us , Peaceful and comfortable !
HELICANUS : Peace , peace , and give experience tongue . They do abuse the king that flatter him : For flattery is the bellows blows up sin ; The thing which is flatter 'd , but a spark , To which that blast gives heat and stronger glowing ; Whereas reproof , obedient and in order , Fits kings , as they are men , for they may err . When Signior Sooth here does proclaim a peace , He flatters you , makes war upon your life . Prince , pardon me , or strike me , if you please ; I cannot be much lower than my knees .
PERICLES : All leave us else ; but let your cares o 'erlook What shipping and what lading 's in our haven , And then return to us . Helicanus , thou Hast moved us : what seest thou in our looks ?
HELICANUS : An angry brow , dread lord .
PERICLES : If there be such a dart in princes ' frowns , How durst thy tongue move anger to our face ?
HELICANUS : How dare the plants look up to heaven , from whence They have their nourishment ?
PERICLES : Thou know 'st I have power To take thy life from thee .
HELICANUS : I have ground the axe myself ; Do you but strike the blow .
PERICLES : Rise , prithee , rise . Sit down : thou art no flatterer : I thank thee for it ; and heaven forbid That kings should let their ears hear their faults hid ! Fit counsellor and servant for a prince , Who by thy wisdom makest a prince thy servant , What wouldst thou have me do ?
HELICANUS : To bear with patience Such griefs as you yourself do lay upon yourself .
