PERICLES : Thou god of this great vast , rebuke these surges , Which wash both heaven and hell ; and thou , that hast Upon the winds command , bind them in brass , Having call 'd them from the deep ! O , still Thy deafening , dreadful thunders ; gently quench Thy nimble , sulphurous flashes ! O , how , Lychorida , How does my queen ? Thou stormest venomously ; Wilt thou spit all thyself ? The seaman 's whistle Is as a whisper in the ears of death , Unheard . Lychorida ! --Lucina , O Divinest patroness , and midwife gentle To those that cry by night , convey thy deity Aboard our dancing boat ; make swift the pangs Of my queen 's travails ! Enter LYCHORIDA , with an Infant Now , Lychorida !
LYCHORIDA : Here is a thing too young for such a place , Who , if it had conceit , would die , as I Am like to do : take in your arms this piece Of your dead queen .
PERICLES : How , how , Lychorida !
LYCHORIDA : Patience , good sir ; do not assist the storm . Here 's all that is left living of your queen , A little daughter : for the sake of it , Be manly , and take comfort .
PERICLES : O you gods ! Why do you make us love your goodly gifts , And snatch them straight away ? We here below Recall not what we give , and therein may Use honour with you .
LYCHORIDA : Patience , good sir , Even for this charge .
PERICLES : Now , mild may be thy life ! For a more blustrous birth had never babe : Quiet and gentle thy conditions ! for Thou art the rudeliest welcome to this world That ever was prince 's child . Happy what follows ! Thou hast as chiding a nativity As fire , air , water , earth , and heaven can make , To herald thee from the womb : even at the first Thy loss is more than can thy portage quit , With all thou canst find here . Now , the good gods Throw their best eyes upon 't ! Enter two Sailors
First Sailor : What courage , sir ? God save you !
PERICLES : Courage enough : I do not fear the flaw ; It hath done to me the worst . Yet , for the love Of this poor infant , this fresh-new sea-farer , I would it would be quiet .
First Sailor : Slack the bolins there ! Thou wilt not , wilt thou ? Blow , and split thyself .
Second Sailor : But sea-room , an the brine and cloudy billow kiss the moon , I care not .
First Sailor : Sir , your queen must overboard : the sea works high , the wind is loud , and will not lie till the ship be cleared of the dead .
PERICLES : That 's your superstition .
First Sailor : Pardon us , sir ; with us at sea it hath been still observed : and we are strong in custom . Therefore briefly yield her ; for she must overboard straight .
PERICLES : As you think meet . Most wretched queen !
LYCHORIDA : Here she lies , sir .
PERICLES : A terrible childbed hast thou had , my dear ; No light , no fire : the unfriendly elements Forgot thee utterly : nor have I time To give thee hallow 'd to thy grave , but straight Must cast thee , scarcely coffin 'd , in the ooze ; Where , for a monument upon thy bones , And e 'er-remaining lamps , the belching whale And humming water must o 'erwhelm thy corpse , Lying with simple shells . O Lychorida , Bid Nestor bring me spices , ink and paper , My casket and my jewels ; and bid Nicander Bring me the satin coffer : lay the babe Upon the pillow : hie thee , whiles I say A priestly farewell to her : suddenly , woman . Exit LYCHORIDA
Second Sailor : Sir , we have a chest beneath the hatches , caulked and bitumed ready .
PERICLES : I thank thee . Mariner , say what coast is this ?
Second Sailor : We are near Tarsus .
