Second Sailor : By break of day , if the wind cease .
PERICLES : O , make for Tarsus ! There will I visit Cleon , for the babe Cannot hold out to Tyrus : there I 'll leave it At careful nursing . Go thy ways , good mariner : I 'll bring the body presently . Enter CERIMON , with a Servant , and some Persons who have been shipwrecked
CERIMON : Philemon , ho ! Enter PHILEMON
PHILEMON : Doth my lord call ?
CERIMON : Get fire and meat for these poor men : ' T has been a turbulent and stormy night .
Servant : I have been in many ; but such a night as this , Till now , I ne 'er endured .
CERIMON : Your master will be dead ere you return ; There 's nothing can be minister 'd to nature That can recover him . To PHILEMON Give this to the ' pothecary , And tell me how it works . Enter two Gentlemen
First Gentleman : Good morrow .
Second Gentleman : Good morrow to your lordship .
CERIMON : Gentlemen , Why do you stir so early ?
First Gentleman : Sir , Our lodgings , standing bleak upon the sea , Shook as the earth did quake ; The very principals did seem to rend , And all-to topple : pure surprise and fear Made me to quit the house .
Second Gentleman : That is the cause we trouble you so early ; ' Tis not our husbandry .
CERIMON : O , you say well .
First Gentleman : But I much marvel that your lordship , having Rich tire about you , should at these early hours Shake off the golden slumber of repose . ' Tis most strange , Nature should be so conversant with pain , Being thereto not compell 'd .
CERIMON : I hold it ever , Virtue and cunning were endowments greater Than nobleness and riches : careless heirs May the two latter darken and expend ; But immortality attends the former . Making a man a god . ' Tis known , I ever Have studied physic , through which secret art , By turning o 'er authorities , I have , Together with my practise , made familiar To me and to my aid the blest infusions That dwell in vegetives , in metals , stones ; And I can speak of the disturbances That nature works , and of her cures ; which doth give me A more content in course of true delight Than to be thirsty after tottering honour , Or tie my treasure up in silken bags , To please the fool and death .
Second Gentleman : Your honour has through Ephesus pour 'd forth Your charity , and hundreds call themselves Your creatures , who by you have been restored : And not your knowledge , your personal pain , but even Your purse , still open , hath built Lord Cerimon Such strong renown as time shall ne 'er decay . Enter two or three Servants with a chest
First Servant : So ; lift there .
CERIMON : What is that ?
First Servant : Sir , even now Did the sea toss upon our shore this chest : ' Tis of some wreck .
CERIMON : Set ' t down , let 's look upon 't .
Second Gentleman : ' Tis like a coffin , sir .
CERIMON : Whate 'er it be , ' Tis wondrous heavy . Wrench it open straight : If the sea 's stomach be o 'ercharged with gold , ' Tis a good constraint of fortune it belches upon us .
Second Gentleman : ' Tis so , my lord .
CERIMON : How close ' tis caulk 'd and bitumed ! Did the sea cast it up ?
First Servant : I never saw so huge a billow , sir , As toss 'd it upon shore .
CERIMON : Wrench it open ; Soft ! it smells most sweetly in my sense .
Second Gentleman : A delicate odour .
CERIMON : As ever hit my nostril . So , up with it . O you most potent gods ! what 's here ? a corse !
First Gentleman : Most strange !
