First Gentleman : Did you ever hear the like ?
Second Gentleman : No , nor never shall do in such a place as this , she being once gone .
First Gentleman : But to have divinity preached there ! did you ever dream of such a thing ?
Second Gentleman : No , no . Come , I am for no more bawdy-houses : shall 's go hear the vestals sing ?
First Gentleman : I 'll do any thing now that is virtuous ; but I am out of the road of rutting for ever . Enter Pandar , Bawd , and BOULT
Pandar : Well , I had rather than twice the worth of her she had ne 'er come here .
Bawd : Fie , fie upon her ! she 's able to freeze the god Priapus , and undo a whole generation . We must either get her ravished , or be rid of her . When she should do for clients her fitment , and do me the kindness of our profession , she has me her quirks , her reasons , her master reasons , her prayers , her knees ; that she would make a puritan of the devil , if he should cheapen a kiss of her .
BOULT : ' Faith , I must ravish her , or she 'll disfurnish us of all our cavaliers , and make our swearers priests .
Pandar : Now , the pox upon her green-sickness for me !
Bawd : ' Faith , there 's no way to be rid on 't but by the way to the pox . Here comes the Lord Lysimachus disguised .
BOULT : We should have both lord and lown , if the peevish baggage would but give way to customers . Enter LYSIMACHUS
LYSIMACHUS : How now ! How a dozen of virginities ?
Bawd : Now , the gods to-bless your honour !
BOULT : I am glad to see your honour in good health .
LYSIMACHUS : You may so ; ' tis the better for you that your resorters stand upon sound legs . How now ! wholesome iniquity have you that a man may deal withal , and defy the surgeon ?
Bawd : We have here one , sir , if she would--but there never came her like in Mytilene .
LYSIMACHUS : If she 'ld do the deed of darkness , thou wouldst say .
Bawd : Your honour knows what ' tis to say well enough .
LYSIMACHUS : Well , call forth , call forth .
BOULT : For flesh and blood , sir , white and red , you shall see a rose ; and she were a rose indeed , if she had but--
LYSIMACHUS : What , prithee ?
BOULT : O , sir , I can be modest .
LYSIMACHUS : That dignifies the renown of a bawd , no less than it gives a good report to a number to be chaste . Exit BOULT
Bawd : Here comes that which grows to the stalk ; never plucked yet , I can assure you . Re-enter BOULT with MARINA Is she not a fair creature ?
LYSIMACHUS : ' Faith , she would serve after a long voyage at sea . Well , there 's for you : leave us .
Bawd : I beseech your honour , give me leave : a word , and I 'll have done presently .
LYSIMACHUS : I beseech you , do .
Bawd : First , I would have you note , this is an honourable man .
MARINA : I desire to find him so , that I may worthily note him .
Bawd : Next , he 's the governor of this country , and a man whom I am bound to .
MARINA : If he govern the country , you are bound to him indeed ; but how honourable he is in that , I know not .
Bawd : Pray you , without any more virginal fencing , will you use him kindly ? He will line your apron with gold .
MARINA : What he will do graciously , I will thankfully receive .
LYSIMACHUS : Ha ' you done ?
Bawd : My lord , she 's not paced yet : you must take some pains to work her to your manage . Come , we will leave his honour and her together . Go thy ways .
