Second Fisherman : Hark you , my friend ; you said you could not beg .
PERICLES : I did but crave .
Second Fisherman : But crave ! Then I 'll turn craver too , and so I shall ' scape whipping .
PERICLES : Why , are all your beggars whipped , then ?
Second Fisherman : O , not all , my friend , not all ; for if all your beggars were whipped , I would wish no better office than to be beadle . But , master , I 'll go draw up the net . Exit with Third Fisherman
PERICLES : How well this honest mirth becomes their labour !
First Fisherman : Hark you , sir , do you know where ye are ?
PERICLES : Not well .
First Fisherman : Why , I 'll tell you : this is called Pentapolis , and our king the good Simonides .
PERICLES : The good King Simonides , do you call him .
First Fisherman : Ay , sir ; and he deserves so to be called for his peaceable reign and good government .
PERICLES : He is a happy king , since he gains from his subjects the name of good by his government . How far is his court distant from this shore ?
First Fisherman : Marry , sir , half a day 's journey : and I 'll tell you , he hath a fair daughter , and to-morrow is her birth-day ; and there are princes and knights come from all parts of the world to just and tourney for her love .
PERICLES : Were my fortunes equal to my desires , I could wish to make one there .
First Fisherman : O , sir , things must be as they may ; and what a man cannot get , he may lawfully deal for--his wife 's soul . Re-enter Second and Third Fishermen , drawing up a net
Second Fisherman : Help , master , help ! here 's a fish hangs in the net , like a poor man 's right in the law ; ' twill hardly come out . Ha ! bots on 't , ' tis come at last , and ' tis turned to a rusty armour .
PERICLES : An armour , friends ! I pray you , let me see it . Thanks , fortune , yet , that , after all my crosses , Thou givest me somewhat to repair myself ; And though it was mine own , part of my heritage , Which my dead father did bequeath to me . With this strict charge , even as he left his life , ' Keep it , my Pericles ; it hath been a shield Twixt me and death ; ' --and pointed to this brace ; -- ' For that it saved me , keep it ; in like necessity-- The which the gods protect thee from ! --may defend thee . ' It kept where I kept , I so dearly loved it ; Till the rough seas , that spare not any man , Took it in rage , though calm 'd have given 't again : I thank thee for 't : my shipwreck now 's no ill , Since I have here my father 's gift in 's will .
First Fisherman : What mean you , sir ?
PERICLES : To beg of you , kind friends , this coat of worth , For it was sometime target to a king ; I know it by this mark . He loved me dearly , And for his sake I wish the having of it ; And that you 'ld guide me to your sovereign 's court , Where with it I may appear a gentleman ; And if that ever my low fortune 's better , I 'll pay your bounties ; till then rest your debtor .
First Fisherman : Why , wilt thou tourney for the lady ?
PERICLES : I 'll show the virtue I have borne in arms .
First Fisherman : Why , do ' e take it , and the gods give thee good on 't !
