MARINA : If fires be hot , knives sharp , or waters deep , Untied I still my virgin knot will keep . Diana , aid my purpose !
Bawd : What have we to do with Diana ? Pray you , will you go with us ? Enter CLEON and DIONYZA
DIONYZA : Why , are you foolish ? Can it be undone ?
CLEON : O Dionyza , such a piece of slaughter The sun and moon ne 'er look 'd upon !
DIONYZA : I think You 'll turn a child again .
CLEON : Were I chief lord of all this spacious world , I 'ld give it to undo the deed . O lady , Much less in blood than virtue , yet a princess To equal any single crown o ' the earth I ' the justice of compare ! O villain Leonine ! Whom thou hast poison 'd too : If thou hadst drunk to him , ' t had been a kindness Becoming well thy fact : what canst thou say When noble Pericles shall demand his child ?
DIONYZA : That she is dead . Nurses are not the fates , To foster it , nor ever to preserve . She died at night ; I 'll say so . Who can cross it ? Unless you play the pious innocent , And for an honest attribute cry out ' She died by foul play . ' 
CLEON : O , go to . Well , well , Of all the faults beneath the heavens , the gods Do like this worst .
DIONYZA : Be one of those that think The petty wrens of Tarsus will fly hence , And open this to Pericles . I do shame To think of what a noble strain you are , And of how coward a spirit .
CLEON : To such proceeding Who ever but his approbation added , Though not his prime consent , he did not flow From honourable sources .
DIONYZA : Be it so , then : Yet none does know , but you , how she came dead , Nor none can know , Leonine being gone . She did disdain my child , and stood between Her and her fortunes : none would look on her , But cast their gazes on Marina 's face ; Whilst ours was blurted at and held a malkin Not worth the time of day . It pierced me through ; And though you call my course unnatural , You not your child well loving , yet I find It greets me as an enterprise of kindness Perform 'd to your sole daughter .
CLEON : Heavens forgive it !
DIONYZA : And as for Pericles , What should he say ? We wept after her hearse , And yet we mourn : her monument Is almost finish 'd , and her epitaphs In glittering golden characters express A general praise to her , and care in us At whose expense ' tis done .
CLEON : Thou art like the harpy , Which , to betray , dost , with thine angel 's face , Seize with thine eagle 's talons .
DIONYZA : You are like one that superstitiously Doth swear to the gods that winter kills the flies : But yet I know you 'll do as I advise . SCENE IV : Enter GOWER , before the monument of MARINA at Tarsus
