BOULT : An if she were a thornier piece of ground than she is , she shall be ploughed .
MARINA : Hark , hark , you gods !
Bawd : She conjures : away with her ! Would she had never come within my doors ! Marry , hang you ! She 's born to undo us . Will you not go the way of women-kind ? Marry , come up , my dish of chastity with rosemary and bays ! Exit
BOULT : Come , mistress ; come your ways with me .
MARINA : Whither wilt thou have me ?
BOULT : To take from you the jewel you hold so dear .
MARINA : Prithee , tell me one thing first .
BOULT : Come now , your one thing .
MARINA : What canst thou wish thine enemy to be ?
BOULT : Why , I could wish him to be my master , or rather , my mistress .
MARINA : Neither of these are so bad as thou art , Since they do better thee in their command . Thou hold 'st a place , for which the pained 'st fiend Of hell would not in reputation change : Thou art the damned doorkeeper to every Coistrel that comes inquiring for his Tib ; To the choleric fisting of every rogue Thy ear is liable ; thy food is such As hath been belch 'd on by infected lungs .
BOULT : What would you have me do ? go to the wars , would you ? where a man may serve seven years for the loss of a leg , and have not money enough in the end to buy him a wooden one ?
MARINA : Do any thing but this thou doest . Empty OLD receptacles , or common shores , of filth ; Serve by indenture to the common hangman : Any of these ways are yet better than this ; For what thou professest , a baboon , could he speak , Would own a name too dear . O , that the gods Would safely deliver me from this place ! Here , here 's gold for thee . If that thy master would gain by thee , Proclaim that I can sing , weave , sew , and dance , With other virtues , which I 'll keep from boast : And I will undertake all these to teach . I doubt not but this populous city will Yield many scholars .
BOULT : But can you teach all this you speak of ?
MARINA : Prove that I cannot , take me home again , And prostitute me to the basest groom That doth frequent your house .
BOULT : Well , I will see what I can do for thee : if I can place thee , I will .
MARINA : But amongst honest women .
BOULT : ' Faith , my acquaintance lies little amongst them . But since my master and mistress have bought you , there 's no going but by their consent : therefore I will make them acquainted with your purpose , and I doubt not but I shall find them tractable enough . Come , I 'll do for thee what I can ; come your ways . Enter GOWER
