Bawd : Come , the gods have done their part in you .
MARINA : I accuse them not .
Bawd : You are light into my hands , where you are like to live .
MARINA : The more my fault To scape his hands where I was like to die .
Bawd : Ay , and you shall live in pleasure .
MARINA : No .
Bawd : Yes , indeed shall you , and taste gentlemen of all fashions : you shall fare well ; you shall have the difference of all complexions . What ! do you stop your ears ?
MARINA : Are you a woman ?
Bawd : What would you have me be , an I be not a woman ?
MARINA : An honest woman , or not a woman .
Bawd : Marry , whip thee , gosling : I think I shall have something to do with you . Come , you 're a young foolish sapling , and must be bowed as I would have you .
MARINA : The gods defend me !
Bawd : If it please the gods to defend you by men , then men must comfort you , men must feed you , men must stir you up . Boult 's returned . Re-enter BOULT Now , sir , hast thou cried her through the market ?
BOULT : I have cried her almost to the number of her hairs ; I have drawn her picture with my voice .
Bawd : And I prithee tell me , how dost thou find the inclination of the people , especially of the younger sort ?
BOULT : ' Faith , they listened to me as they would have hearkened to their father 's testament . There was a Spaniard 's mouth so watered , that he went to bed to her very description .
Bawd : We shall have him here to-morrow with his best ruff on .
BOULT : To-night , to-night . But , mistress , do you know the French knight that cowers i ' the hams ?
Bawd : Who , Monsieur Veroles ?
BOULT : Ay , he : he offered to cut a caper at the proclamation ; but he made a groan at it , and swore he would see her to-morrow .
Bawd : Well , well ; as for him , he brought his disease hither : here he does but repair it . I know he will come in our shadow , to scatter his crowns in the sun .
BOULT : Well , if we had of every nation a traveller , we should lodge them with this sign .
Bawd : Pray you , come hither awhile . You have fortunes coming upon you . Mark me : you must seem to do that fearfully which you commit willingly , despise profit where you have most gain . To weep that you live as ye do makes pity in your lovers : seldom but that pity begets you a good opinion , and that opinion a mere profit .
MARINA : I understand you not .
BOULT : O , take her home , mistress , take her home : these blushes of hers must be quenched with some present practise .
Bawd : Thou sayest true , i ' faith , so they must ; for your bride goes to that with shame which is her way to go with warrant .
BOULT : ' Faith , some do , and some do not . But , mistress , if I have bargained for the joint , --
Bawd : Thou mayst cut a morsel off the spit .
BOULT : I may so .
Bawd : Who should deny it ? Come , young one , I like the manner of your garments well .
BOULT : Ay , by my faith , they shall not be changed yet .
Bawd : Boult , spend thou that in the town : report what a sojourner we have ; you 'll lose nothing by custom . When nature flamed this piece , she meant thee a good turn ; therefore say what a paragon she is , and thou hast the harvest out of thine own report .
BOULT : I warrant you , mistress , thunder shall not so awake the beds of eels as my giving out her beauty stir up the lewdly-inclined . I 'll bring home some to-night .
