PERICLES : ' Tis most certain .
CERIMON : Look to the lady ; O , she 's but o 'erjoy 'd . Early in blustering morn this lady was Thrown upon this shore . I oped the coffin , Found there rich jewels ; recover 'd her , and placed her Here in Diana 's temple .
PERICLES : May we see them ?
CERIMON : Great sir , they shall be brought you to my house , Whither I invite you . Look , Thaisa is recovered .
THAISA : O , let me look ! If he be none of mine , my sanctity Will to my sense bend no licentious ear , But curb it , spite of seeing . O , my lord , Are you not Pericles ? Like him you spake , Like him you are : did you not name a tempest , A birth , and death ?
PERICLES : The voice of dead Thaisa !
THAISA : That Thaisa am I , supposed dead And drown 'd .
PERICLES : Immortal Dian !
THAISA : Now I know you better . When we with tears parted Pentapolis , The king my father gave you such a ring . Shows a ring
PERICLES : This , this : no more , you gods ! your present kindness Makes my past miseries sports : you shall do well , That on the touching of her lips I may Melt and no more be seen . O , come , be buried A second time within these arms .
MARINA : My heart Leaps to be gone into my mother 's bosom . Kneels to THAISA
PERICLES : Look , who kneels here ! Flesh of thy flesh , Thaisa ; Thy burden at the sea , and call 'd Marina For she was yielded there .
THAISA : Blest , and mine own !
HELICANUS : Hail , madam , and my queen !
THAISA : I know you not .
PERICLES : You have heard me say , when I did fly from Tyre , I left behind an ancient substitute : Can you remember what I call 'd the man ? I have named him oft .
THAISA : ' Twas Helicanus then .
PERICLES : Still confirmation : Embrace him , dear Thaisa ; this is he . Now do I long to hear how you were found ; How possibly preserved ; and who to thank , Besides the gods , for this great miracle .
THAISA : Lord Cerimon , my lord ; this man , Through whom the gods have shown their power ; that can From first to last resolve you .
PERICLES : Reverend sir , The gods can have no mortal officer More like a god than you . Will you deliver How this dead queen re-lives ?
CERIMON : I will , my lord . Beseech you , first go with me to my house , Where shall be shown you all was found with her ; How she came placed here in the temple ; No needful thing omitted .
PERICLES : Pure Dian , bless thee for thy vision ! I Will offer night-oblations to thee . Thaisa , This prince , the fair-betrothed of your daughter , Shall marry her at Pentapolis . And now , This ornament Makes me look dismal will I clip to form ; And what this fourteen years no razor touch 'd , To grace thy marriage-day , I 'll beautify .
THAISA : Lord Cerimon hath letters of good credit , sir , My father 's dead .
PERICLES : Heavens make a star of him ! Yet there , my queen , We 'll celebrate their nuptials , and ourselves Will in that kingdom spend our following days : Our son and daughter shall in Tyrus reign . Lord Cerimon , we do our longing stay To hear the rest untold : sir , lead 's the way . Enter GOWER
