DIONYZA : That were to blow at fire in hope to quench it ; For who digs hills because they do aspire Throws down one mountain to cast up a higher . O my distressed lord , even such our griefs are ; Here they 're but felt , and seen with mischief 's eyes , But like to groves , being topp 'd , they higher rise .
CLEON : O Dionyza , Who wanteth food , and will not say he wants it , Or can conceal his hunger till he famish ? Our tongues and sorrows do sound deep Our woes into the air ; our eyes do weep , Till tongues fetch breath that may proclaim them louder ; That , if heaven slumber while their creatures want , They may awake their helps to comfort them . I 'll then discourse our woes , felt several years , And wanting breath to speak help me with tears .
DIONYZA : I 'll do my best , sir .
CLEON : This Tarsus , o 'er which I have the government , A city on whom plenty held full hand , For riches strew 'd herself even in the streets ; Whose towers bore heads so high they kiss 'd the clouds , And strangers ne 'er beheld but wondered at ; Whose men and dames so jetted and adorn 'd , Like one another 's glass to trim them by : Their tables were stored full , to glad the sight , And not so much to feed on as delight ; All poverty was scorn 'd , and pride so great , The name of help grew odious to repeat .
DIONYZA : O , ' tis too true .
CLEON : But see what heaven can do ! By this our change , These mouths , who but of late , earth , sea , and air , Were all too little to content and please , Although they gave their creatures in abundance , As houses are defiled for want of use , They are now starved for want of exercise : Those palates who , not yet two summers younger , Must have inventions to delight the taste , Would now be glad of bread , and beg for it : Those mothers who , to nousle up their babes , Thought nought too curious , are ready now To eat those little darlings whom they loved . So sharp are hunger 's teeth , that man and wife Draw lots who first shall die to lengthen life : Here stands a lord , and there a lady weeping ; Here many sink , yet those which see them fall Have scarce strength left to give them burial . Is not this true ?
DIONYZA : Our cheeks and hollow eyes do witness it .
CLEON : O , let those cities that of plenty 's cup And her prosperities so largely taste , With their superfluous riots , hear these tears ! The misery of Tarsus may be theirs . Enter a Lord
Lord : Where 's the lord governor ?
CLEON : Here . Speak out thy sorrows which thou bring 'st in haste , For comfort is too far for us to expect .
Lord : We have descried , upon our neighbouring shore , A portly sail of ships make hitherward .
CLEON : I thought as much . One sorrow never comes but brings an heir , That may succeed as his inheritor ; And so in ours : some neighbouring nation , Taking advantage of our misery , Hath stuff 'd these hollow vessels with their power , To beat us down , the which are down already ; And make a conquest of unhappy me , Whereas no glory 's got to overcome .
Lord : That 's the least fear ; for , by the semblance Of their white flags display 'd , they bring us peace , And come to us as favourers , not as foes .
CLEON : Thou speak 'st like him 's untutor 'd to repeat : Who makes the fairest show means most deceit . But bring they what they will and what they can , What need we fear ? The ground 's the lowest , and we are half way there . Go tell their general we attend him here , To know for what he comes , and whence he comes , And what he craves .
