LEONINE : These roguing thieves serve the great pirate Valdes ; And they have seized Marina . Let her go : There 's no hope she will return . I 'll swear she 's dead , And thrown into the sea . But I 'll see further : Perhaps they will but please themselves upon her , Not carry her aboard . If she remain , Whom they have ravish 'd must by me be slain . Exit Enter Pandar , Bawd , and BOULT
Pandar : Boult !
BOULT : Sir ?
Pandar : Search the market narrowly ; Mytilene is full of gallants . We lost too much money this mart by being too wenchless .
Bawd : We were never so much out of creatures . We have but poor three , and they can do no more than they can do ; and they with continual action are even as good as rotten .
Pandar : Therefore let 's have fresh ones , whate 'er we pay for them . If there be not a conscience to be used in every trade , we shall never prosper .
Bawd : Thou sayest true : ' tis not our bringing up of poor bastards , --as , I think , I have brought up some eleven--
BOULT : Ay , to eleven ; and brought them down again . But shall I search the market ?
Bawd : What else , man ? The stuff we have , a strong wind will blow it to pieces , they are so pitifully sodden .
Pandar : Thou sayest true ; they 're too unwholesome , o ' conscience . The poor Transylvanian is dead , that lay with the little baggage .
BOULT : Ay , she quickly pooped him ; she made him roast-meat for worms . But I 'll go search the market . Exit
Pandar : Three or four thousand chequins were as pretty a proportion to live quietly , and so give over .
Bawd : Why to give over , I pray you ? is it a shame to get when we are old ?
Pandar : O , our credit comes not in like the commodity , nor the commodity wages not with the danger : therefore , if in our youths we could pick up some pretty estate , ' twere not amiss to keep our door hatched . Besides , the sore terms we stand upon with the gods will be strong with us for giving over .
Bawd : Come , other sorts offend as well as we .
Pandar : As well as we ! ay , and better too ; we offend worse . Neither is our profession any trade ; it 's no calling . But here comes Boult . Re-enter BOULT , with the Pirates and MARINA
BOULT : Come your ways . My masters , you say she 's a virgin ?
First Pirate : O , sir , we doubt it not .
BOULT : Master , I have gone through for this piece , you see : if you like her , so ; if not , I have lost my earnest .
Bawd : Boult , has she any qualities ?
BOULT : She has a good face , speaks well , and has excellent good clothes : there 's no further necessity of qualities can make her be refused .
Bawd : What 's her price , Boult ?
BOULT : I cannot be bated one doit of a thousand pieces .
Pandar : Well , follow me , my masters , you shall have your money presently . Wife , take her in ; instruct her what she has to do , that she may not be raw in her entertainment .
Bawd : Boult , take you the marks of her , the colour of her hair , complexion , height , age , with warrant of her virginity ; and cry ' He that will give most shall have her first . ' Such a maidenhead were no cheap thing , if men were as they have been . Get this done as I command you .
BOULT : Performance shall follow . Exit
MARINA : Alack that Leonine was so slack , so slow ! He should have struck , not spoke ; or that these pirates , Not enough barbarous , had not o 'erboard thrown me For to seek my mother !
Bawd : Why lament you , pretty one ?
