MARINA : Sir , I will use My utmost skill in his recovery , Provided That none but I and my companion maid Be suffer 'd to come near him .
LYSIMACHUS : Come , let us leave her ; And the gods make her prosperous ! MARINA sings
LYSIMACHUS : Mark 'd he your music ?
MARINA : No , nor look 'd on us .
LYSIMACHUS : See , she will speak to him .
MARINA : Hail , sir ! my lord , lend ear .
PERICLES : Hum , ha !
MARINA : I am a maid , My lord , that ne 'er before invited eyes , But have been gazed on like a comet : she speaks , My lord , that , may be , hath endured a grief Might equal yours , if both were justly weigh 'd . Though wayward fortune did malign my state , My derivation was from ancestors Who stood equivalent with mighty kings : But time hath rooted out my parentage , And to the world and awkward casualties Bound me in servitude . Aside I will desist ; But there is something glows upon my cheek , And whispers in mine ear , ' Go not till he speak . ' 
PERICLES : My fortunes--parentage--good parentage-- To equal mine ! --was it not thus ? what say you ?
MARINA : I said , my lord , if you did know my parentage , You would not do me violence .
PERICLES : I do think so . Pray you , turn your eyes upon me . You are like something that--What country-woman ? Here of these shores ?
MARINA : No , nor of any shores : Yet I was mortally brought forth , and am No other than I appear .
PERICLES : I am great with woe , and shall deliver weeping . My dearest wife was like this maid , and such a one My daughter might have been : my queen 's square brows ; Her stature to an inch ; as wand-like straight ; As silver-voiced ; her eyes as jewel-like And cased as richly ; in pace another Juno ; Who starves the ears she feeds , and makes them hungry , The more she gives them speech . Where do you live ?
MARINA : Where I am but a stranger : from the deck You may discern the place .
PERICLES : Where were you bred ? And how achieved you these endowments , which You make more rich to owe ?
MARINA : If I should tell my history , it would seem Like lies disdain 'd in the reporting .
PERICLES : Prithee , speak : Falseness cannot come from thee ; for thou look 'st Modest as Justice , and thou seem 'st a palace For the crown 'd Truth to dwell in : I will believe thee , And make my senses credit thy relation To points that seem impossible ; for thou look 'st Like one I loved indeed . What were thy friends ? Didst thou not say , when I did push thee back-- Which was when I perceived thee--that thou camest From good descending ?
MARINA : So indeed I did .
PERICLES : Report thy parentage . I think thou said 'st Thou hadst been toss 'd from wrong to injury , And that thou thought 'st thy griefs might equal mine , If both were open 'd .
MARINA : Some such thing I said , and said no more but what my thoughts Did warrant me was likely .
PERICLES : Tell thy story ; If thine consider 'd prove the thousandth part Of my endurance , thou art a man , and I Have suffer 'd like a girl : yet thou dost look Like Patience gazing on kings ' graves , and smiling Extremity out of act . What were thy friends ? How lost thou them ? Thy name , my most kind virgin ? Recount , I do beseech thee : come , sit by me .
MARINA : My name is Marina .
PERICLES : O , I am mock 'd , And thou by some incensed god sent hither To make the world to laugh at me .
MARINA : Patience , good sir , Or here I 'll cease .
PERICLES : Nay , I 'll be patient . Thou little know 'st how thou dost startle me , To call thyself Marina .
