HELICANUS : Alas , sir !
PERICLES : Drew sleep out of mine eyes , blood from my cheeks , Musings into my mind , with thousand doubts How I might stop this tempest ere it came ; And finding little comfort to relieve them , I thought it princely charity to grieve them .
HELICANUS : Well , my lord , since you have given me leave to speak . Freely will I speak . Antiochus you fear , And justly too , I think , you fear the tyrant , Who either by public war or private treason Will take away your life . Therefore , my lord , go travel for a while , Till that his rage and anger be forgot , Or till the Destinies do cut his thread of life . Your rule direct to any ; if to me . Day serves not light more faithful than I 'll be .
PERICLES : I do not doubt thy faith ; But should he wrong my liberties in my absence ?
HELICANUS : We 'll mingle our bloods together in the earth , From whence we had our being and our birth .
PERICLES : Tyre , I now look from thee then , and to Tarsus Intend my travel , where I 'll hear from thee ; And by whose letters I 'll dispose myself . The care I had and have of subjects ' good On thee I lay whose wisdom 's strength can bear it . I 'll take thy word for faith , not ask thine oath : Who shuns not to break one will sure crack both : But in our orbs we 'll live so round and safe , That time of both this truth shall ne 'er convince , Thou show 'dst a subject 's shine , I a true prince . Enter THALIARD
THALIARD : So , this is Tyre , and this the court . Here must I kill King Pericles ; and if I do it not , I am sure to be hanged at home : ' tis dangerous . Well , I perceive he was a wise fellow , and had good discretion , that , being bid to ask what he would of the king , desired he might know none of his secrets : now do I see he had some reason for 't ; for if a king bid a man be a villain , he 's bound by the indenture of his oath to be one ! Hush ! here come the lords of Tyre . Enter HELICANUS and ESCANES , with other Lords of Tyre
HELICANUS : You shall not need , my fellow peers of Tyre , Further to question me of your king 's departure : His seal 'd commission , left in trust with me , Doth speak sufficiently he 's gone to travel .
THALIARD : How ! the king gone !
HELICANUS : If further yet you will be satisfied , Why , as it were unlicensed of your loves , He would depart , I 'll give some light unto you . Being at Antioch--
THALIARD : What from Antioch ?
HELICANUS : Royal Antiochus--on what cause I know not-- Took some displeasure at him ; at least he judged so : And doubting lest that he had err 'd or sinn 'd , To show his sorrow , he 'ld correct himself ; So puts himself unto the shipman 's toil , With whom each minute threatens life or death .
THALIARD : Well , I perceive I shall not be hang 'd now , although I would ; But since he 's gone , the king 's seas must please : He ' scaped the land , to perish at the sea . I 'll present myself . Peace to the lords of Tyre !
HELICANUS : Lord Thaliard from Antiochus is welcome .
THALIARD : From him I come With message unto princely Pericles ; But since my landing I have understood Your lord has betook himself to unknown travels , My message must return from whence it came .
HELICANUS : We have no reason to desire it , Commended to our master , not to us : Yet , ere you shall depart , this we desire , As friends to Antioch , we may feast in Tyre . Enter CLEON , the governor of Tarsus , with DIONYZA , and others
