PERICLES : How ! a king 's daughter ? And call 'd Marina ?
MARINA : You said you would believe me ; But , not to be a troubler of your peace , I will end here .
PERICLES : But are you flesh and blood ? Have you a working pulse ? and are no fairy ? Motion ! Well ; speak on . Where were you born ? And wherefore call 'd Marina ?
MARINA : Call 'd Marina For I was born at sea .
PERICLES : At sea ! what mother ?
MARINA : My mother was the daughter of a king ; Who died the minute I was born , As my good nurse Lychorida hath oft Deliver 'd weeping .
PERICLES : O , stop there a little ! Aside This is the rarest dream that e 'er dull sleep Did mock sad fools withal : this cannot be : My daughter 's buried . Well : where were you bred ? I 'll hear you more , to the bottom of your story , And never interrupt you .
MARINA : You scorn : believe me , ' twere best I did give o 'er .
PERICLES : I will believe you by the syllable Of what you shall deliver . Yet , give me leave : How came you in these parts ? where were you bred ?
MARINA : The king my father did in Tarsus leave me ; Till cruel Cleon , with his wicked wife , Did seek to murder me : and having woo 'd A villain to attempt it , who having drawn to do 't , A crew of pirates came and rescued me ; Brought me to Mytilene . But , good sir , Whither will you have me ? Why do you weep ? It may be , You think me an impostor : no , good faith ; I am the daughter to King Pericles , If good King Pericles be .
PERICLES : Ho , Helicanus !
HELICANUS : Calls my lord ?
PERICLES : Thou art a grave and noble counsellor , Most wise in general : tell me , if thou canst , What this maid is , or what is like to be , That thus hath made me weep ?
HELICANUS : I know not ; but Here is the regent , sir , of Mytilene Speaks nobly of her .
LYSIMACHUS : She would never tell Her parentage ; being demanded that , She would sit still and weep .
PERICLES : O Helicanus , strike me , honour 'd sir ; Give me a gash , put me to present pain ; Lest this great sea of joys rushing upon me O 'erbear the shores of my mortality , And drown me with their sweetness . O , come hither , Thou that beget 'st him that did thee beget ; Thou that wast born at sea , buried at Tarsus , And found at sea again ! O Helicanus , Down on thy knees , thank the holy gods as loud As thunder threatens us : this is Marina . What was thy mother 's name ? tell me but that , For truth can never be confirm 'd enough , Though doubts did ever sleep .
MARINA : First , sir , I pray , What is your title ?
PERICLES : I am Pericles of Tyre : but tell me now My drown 'd queen 's name , as in the rest you said Thou hast been godlike perfect , The heir of kingdoms and another like To Pericles thy father .
MARINA : Is it no more to be your daughter than To say my mother 's name was Thaisa ? Thaisa was my mother , who did end The minute I began .
PERICLES : Now , blessing on thee ! rise ; thou art my child . Give me fresh garments . Mine own , Helicanus ; She is not dead at Tarsus , as she should have been , By savage Cleon : she shall tell thee all ; When thou shalt kneel , and justify in knowledge She is thy very princess . Who is this ?
HELICANUS : Sir , ' tis the governor of Mytilene , Who , hearing of your melancholy state , Did come to see you .
