SIMONIDES : Opinion 's but a fool , that makes us scan The outward habit by the inward man . But stay , the knights are coming : we will withdraw Into the gallery . Great shouts within and all cry ' The mean knight ! ' Enter SIMONIDES , THAISA , Lords , Attendants , and Knights , from tilting
SIMONIDES : Knights , To say you 're welcome were superfluous . To place upon the volume of your deeds , As in a title-page , your worth in arms , Were more than you expect , or more than 's fit , Since every worth in show commends itself . Prepare for mirth , for mirth becomes a feast : You are princes and my guests .
THAISA : But you , my knight and guest ; To whom this wreath of victory I give , And crown you king of this day 's happiness .
PERICLES : ' Tis more by fortune , lady , than by merit .
SIMONIDES : Call it by what you will , the day is yours ; And here , I hope , is none that envies it . In framing an artist , art hath thus decreed , To make some good , but others to exceed ; And you are her labour 'd scholar . Come , queen o ' the feast , -- For , daughter , so you are , --here take your place : Marshal the rest , as they deserve their grace .
KNIGHTS : We are honour 'd much by good Simonides .
SIMONIDES : Your presence glads our days : honour we love ; For who hates honour hates the gods above .
Marshal : Sir , yonder is your place .
PERICLES : Some other is more fit .
First Knight : Contend not , sir ; for we are gentlemen That neither in our hearts nor outward eyes Envy the great nor do the low despise .
PERICLES : You are right courteous knights .
SIMONIDES : Sit , sir , sit .
PERICLES : By Jove , I wonder , that is king of thoughts , These cates resist me , she but thought upon .
THAISA : By Juno , that is queen of marriage , All viands that I eat do seem unsavoury . Wishing him my meat . Sure , he 's a gallant gentleman .
SIMONIDES : He 's but a country gentleman ; Has done no more than other knights have done ; Has broken a staff or so ; so let it pass .
THAISA : To me he seems like diamond to glass .
PERICLES : Yon king 's to me like to my father 's picture , Which tells me in that glory once he was ; Had princes sit , like stars , about his throne , And he the sun , for them to reverence ; None that beheld him , but , like lesser lights , Did vail their crowns to his supremacy : Where now his son 's like a glow-worm in the night , The which hath fire in darkness , none in light : Whereby I see that Time 's the king of men , He 's both their parent , and he is their grave , And gives them what he will , not what they crave .
SIMONIDES : What , are you merry , knights ?
Knights : Who can be other in this royal presence ?
SIMONIDES : Here , with a cup that 's stored unto the brim , -- As you do love , fill to your mistress ' lips , -- We drink this health to you .
KNIGHTS : We thank your grace .
SIMONIDES : Yet pause awhile : Yon knight doth sit too melancholy , As if the entertainment in our court Had not a show might countervail his worth . Note it not you , Thaisa ?
THAISA : What is it To me , my father ?
SIMONIDES : O , attend , my daughter : Princes in this should live like gods above , Who freely give to every one that comes To honour them : And princes not doin g so are like to gnats , Which make a sound , but kill 'd are wonder 'd at . Therefore to make his entrance more sweet , Here , say we drink this standing-bowl of wine to him .
