ANTIOCHUS : Young prince of Tyre , you have at large received The danger of the task you undertake .
PERICLES : I have , Antiochus , and , with a soul Embolden 'd with the glory of her praise , Think death no hazard in this enterprise .
ANTIOCHUS : Bring in our daughter , clothed like a bride , For the embracements even of Jove himself ; At whose conception , till Lucina reign 'd , Nature this dowry gave , to glad her presence , The senate-house of planets all did sit , To knit in her their best perfections . Music . Enter the Daughter of ANTIOCHUS
PERICLES : See where she comes , apparell 'd like the spring , Graces her subjects , and her thoughts the king Of every virtue gives renown to men ! Her face the book of praises , where is read Nothing but curious pleasures , as from thence Sorrow were ever razed and testy wrath Could never be her mild companion . You gods that made me man , and sway in love , That have inflamed desire in my breast To taste the fruit of yon celestial tree , Or die in the adventure , be my helps , As I am son and servant to your will , To compass such a boundless happiness !
ANTIOCHUS : Prince Pericles , --
PERICLES : That would be son to great Antiochus .
ANTIOCHUS : Before thee stands this fair Hesperides , With golden fruit , but dangerous to be touch 'd ; For death-like dragons here affright thee hard : Her face , like heaven , enticeth thee to view Her countless glory , which desert must gain ; And which , without desert , because thine eye Presumes to reach , all thy whole heap must die . Yon sometimes famous princes , like thyself , Drawn by report , adventurous by desire , Tell thee , with speechless tongues and semblance pale , That without covering , save yon field of stars , Here they stand martyrs , slain in Cupid 's wars ; And with dead cheeks advise thee to desist For going on death 's net , whom none resist .
PERICLES : Antiochus , I thank thee , who hath taught My frail mortality to know itself , And by those fearful objects to prepare This body , like to them , to what I must ; For death remember 'd should be like a mirror , Who tells us life 's but breath , to trust it error . I 'll make my will then , and , as sick men do Who know the world , see heaven , but , feeling woe , Gripe not at earthly joys as erst they did ; So I bequeath a happy peace to you And all good men , as every prince should do ; My riches to the earth from whence they came ; But my unspotted fire of love to you . To the Daughter of ANTIOCHUS Thus ready for the way of life or death , I wait the sharpest blow , Antiochus .
ANTIOCHUS : Scorning advice , read the conclusion then : Which read and not expounded , ' tis decreed , As these before thee thou thyself shalt bleed .
Daughter : Of all say 'd yet , mayst thou prove prosperous ! Of all say 'd yet , I wish thee happiness !
