Second Gentleman : Most likely , sir .
CERIMON : Nay , certainly to-night ; For look how fresh she looks ! They were too rough That threw her in the sea . Make a fire within : Fetch hither all my boxes in my closet . Exit a Servant Death may usurp on nature many hours , And yet the fire of life kindle again The o 'erpress 'd spirits . I heard of an Egyptian That had nine hours lien dead , Who was by good appliance recovered . Re-enter a Servant , with boxes , napkins , and fire Well said , well said ; the fire and cloths . The rough and woeful music that we have , Cause it to sound , beseech you . The viol once more : how thou stirr 'st , thou block ! The music there ! --I pray you , give her air . Gentlemen . This queen will live : nature awakes ; a warmth Breathes out of her : she hath not been entranced Above five hours : see how she gins to blow Into life 's flower again !
First Gentleman : The heavens , Through you , increase our wonder and set up Your fame forever .
CERIMON : She is alive ; behold , Her eyelids , cases to those heavenly jewels Which Pericles hath lost , Begin to part their fringes of bright gold ; The diamonds of a most praised water Do appear , to make the world twice rich . Live , And make us weep to hear your fate , fair creature , Rare as you seem to be . She moves
THAISA : O dear Diana , Where am I ? Where 's my lord ? What world is this ?
Second Gentleman : Is not this strange ?
First Gentleman : Most rare .
CERIMON : Hush , my gentle neighbours ! Lend me your hands ; to the next chamber bear her . Get linen : now this matter must be look 'd to , For her relapse is mortal . Come , come ; And AEsculapius guide us ! Enter PERICLES , CLEON , DIONYZA , and LYCHORIDA with MARINA in her arms
PERICLES : Most honour 'd Cleon , I must needs be gone ; My twelve months are expired , and Tyrus stands In a litigious peace . You , and your lady , Take from my heart all thankfulness ! The gods Make up the rest upon you !
CLEON : Your shafts of fortune , though they hurt you mortally , Yet glance full wanderingly on us .
DIONYZA : O your sweet queen ! That the strict fates had pleased you had brought her hither , To have bless 'd mine eyes with her !
PERICLES : We cannot but obey The powers above us . Could I rage and roar As doth the sea she lies in , yet the end Must be as ' tis . My gentle babe Marina , whom , For she was born at sea , I have named so , here I charge your charity withal , leaving her The infant of your care ; beseeching you To give her princely training , that she may be Manner 'd as she is born .
CLEON : Fear not , my lord , but think Your grace , that fed my country with your corn , For which the people 's prayers still fall upon you , Must in your child be thought on . If neglection Should therein make me vile , the common body , By you relieved , would force me to my duty : But if to that my nature need a spur , The gods revenge it upon me and mine , To the end of generation !
PERICLES : I believe you ; Your honour and your goodness teach me to 't , Without your vows . Till she be married , madam , By bright Diana , whom we honour , all Unscissor 'd shall this hair of mine remain , Though I show ill in 't . So I take my leave . Good madam , make me blessed in your care In bringing up my child .
DIONYZA : I have one myself , Who shall not be more dear to my respect Than yours , my lord .
PERICLES : Madam , my thanks and prayers .
