ANTIOCHUS : Prince Pericles , touch not , upon thy life . For that 's an article within our law , As dangerous as the rest . Your time 's expired : Either expound now , or receive your sentence .
PERICLES : Great king , Few love to hear the sins they love to act ; ' Twould braid yourself too near for me to tell it . Who has a book of all that monarchs do , He 's more secure to keep it shut than shown : For vice repeated is like the wandering wind . Blows dust in other 's eyes , to spread itself ; And yet the end of all is bought thus dear , The breath is gone , and the sore eyes see clear : To stop the air would hurt them . The blind mole casts Copp 'd hills towards heaven , to tell the earth is throng 'd By man 's oppression ; and the poor worm doth die for 't . Kings are earth 's gods ; in vice their law 's their will ; And if Jove stray , who dares say Jove doth ill ? It is enough you know ; and it is fit , What being more known grows worse , to smother it . All love the womb that their first being bred , Then give my tongue like leave to love my head .
ANTIOCHUS : Heaven , that I had thy head ! he has found the meaning : But I will gloze with him.--Young prince of Tyre , Though by the tenor of our strict edict , Your exposition misinterpreting , We might proceed to cancel of your days ; Yet hope , succeeding from so fair a tree As your fair self , doth tune us otherwise : Forty days longer we do respite you ; If by which time our secret be undone , This mercy shows we 'll joy in such a son : And until then your entertain shall be As doth befit our honour and your worth .
PERICLES : How courtesy would seem to cover sin , When what is done is like an hypocrite , The which is good in nothing but in sight ! If it be true that I interpret false , Then were it certain you were not so bad As with foul incest to abuse your soul ; Where now you 're both a father and a son , By your untimely claspings with your child , Which pleasure fits an husband , not a father ; And she an eater of her mother 's flesh , By the defiling of her parent 's bed ; And both like serpents are , who though they feed On sweetest flowers , yet they poison breed . Antioch , farewell ! for wisdom sees , those men Blush not in actions blacker than the night , Will shun no course to keep them from the light . One sin , I know , another doth provoke ; Murder 's as near to lust as flame to smoke : Poison and treason are the hands of sin , Ay , and the targets , to put off the shame : Then , lest my lie be cropp 'd to keep you clear , By flight I 'll shun the danger which I fear . Exit Re-enter ANTIOCHUS
ANTIOCHUS : He hath found the meaning , for which we mean To have his head . He must not live to trumpet forth my infamy , Nor tell the world Antiochus doth sin In such a loathed manner ; And therefore instantly this prince must die : For by his fall my honour must keep high . Who attends us there ? Enter THALIARD
THALIARD : Doth your highness call ?
ANTIOCHUS : Thaliard , You are of our chamber , and our mind partakes Her private actions to your secrecy ; And for your faithfulness we will advance you . Thaliard , behold , here 's poison , and here 's gold ; We hate the prince of Tyre , and thou must kill him : It fits thee not to ask the reason why , Because we bid it . Say , is it done ?
THALIARD : My lord , ' Tis done .
ANTIOCHUS : Enough . Enter a Messenger Let your breath cool yourself , telling your haste .
Messenger : My lord , prince Pericles is fled . Exit
