SIMONIDES : How ! Do as I bid you , or you 'll move me else .
THAISA : Now , by the gods , he could not please me better .
SIMONIDES : And furthermore tell him , we desire to know of him , Of whence he is , his name and parentage .
THAISA : The king my father , sir , has drunk to you .
PERICLES : I thank him .
THAISA : Wishing it so much blood unto your life .
PERICLES : I thank both him and you , and pledge him freely .
THAISA : And further he desires to know of you , Of whence you are , your name and parentage .
PERICLES : A gentleman of Tyre ; my name , Pericles ; My education been in arts and arms ; Who , looking for adventures in the world , Was by the rough seas reft of ships and men , And after shipwreck driven upon this shore .
THAISA : He thanks your grace ; names himself Pericles , A gentleman of Tyre , Who only by misfortune of the seas Bereft of ships and men , cast on this shore .
SIMONIDES : Now , by the gods , I pity his misfortune , And will awake him from his melancholy . Come , gentlemen , we sit too long on trifles , And waste the time , which looks for other revels . Even in your armours , as you are address 'd , Will very well become a soldier 's dance . I will not have excuse , with saying this Loud music is too harsh for ladies ' heads , Since they love men in arms as well as beds . The Knights dance So , this was well ask 'd , ' twas so well perform 'd . Come , sir ; Here is a lady that wants breathing too : And I have heard , you knights of Tyre Are excellent in making ladies trip ; And that their measures are as excellent .
PERICLES : In those that practise them they are , my lord .
SIMONIDES : O , that 's as much as you would be denied Of your fair courtesy . The Knights and Ladies dance Unclasp , unclasp : Thanks , gentlemen , to all ; all have done well . To PERICLES But you the best . Pages and lights , to conduct These knights unto their several lodgings ! To PERICLES Yours , sir , We have given order to be next our own .
PERICLES : I am at your grace 's pleasure .
SIMONIDES : Princes , it is too late to talk of love ; And that 's the mark I know you level at : Therefore each one betake him to his rest ; To-morrow all for speeding do their best . Enter HELICANUS and ESCANES
HELICANUS : No , Escanes , know this of me , Antiochus from incest lived not free : For which , the most high gods not minding longer To withhold the vengeance that they had in store , Due to this heinous capital offence , Even in the height and pride of all his glory , When he was seated in a chariot Of an inestimable value , and his daughter with him , A fire from heaven came and shrivell 'd up Their bodies , even to loathing ; for they so stunk , That all those eyes adored them ere their fall Scorn now their hand should give them burial .
ESCANES : ' Twas very strange .
HELICANUS : And yet but justice ; for though This king were great , his greatness was no guard To bar heaven 's shaft , but sin had his reward .
ESCANES : ' Tis very true . Enter two or three Lords
First Lord : See , not a man in private conference Or council has respect with him but he .
Second Lord : It shall no longer grieve without reproof .
Third Lord : And cursed be he that will not second it .
First Lord : Follow me , then . Lord Helicane , a word .
HELICANUS : With me ? and welcome : happy day , my lords .
First Lord : Know that our griefs are risen to the top , And now at length they overflow their banks .
HELICANUS : Your griefs ! for what ? wrong not your prince you love .
