CLEON : Welcome is peace , if he on peace consist ; If wars , we are unable to resist . Enter PERICLES with Attendants
PERICLES : Lord governor , for so we hear you are , Let not our ships and number of our men Be like a beacon fired to amaze your eyes . We have heard your miseries as far as Tyre , And seen the desolation of your streets : Nor come we to add sorrow to your tears , But to relieve them of their heavy load ; And these our ships , you happily may think Are like the Trojan horse was stuff 'd within With bloody veins , expecting overthrow , Are stored with corn to make your needy bread , And give them life whom hunger starved half dead .
All : The gods of Greece protect you ! And we 'll pray for you .
PERICLES : Arise , I pray you , rise : We do not look for reverence , but to love , And harbourage for ourself , our ships , and men .
CLEON : The which when any shall not gratify , Or pay you with unthankfulness in thought , Be it our wives , our children , or ourselves , The curse of heaven and men succeed their evils ! Till when , --the which I hope shall ne 'er be seen , -- Your grace is welcome to our town and us .
PERICLES : Which welcome we 'll accept ; feast here awhile , Until our stars that frown lend us a smile . Enter GOWER
GOWER : Here have you seen a mighty king His child , I wis , to incest bring ; A better prince and benign lord , That will prove awful both in deed and word . Be quiet then as men should be , Till he hath pass 'd necessity . I 'll show you those in troubles reign , Losing a mite , a mountain gain . The good in conversation , To whom I give my benison , Is still at Tarsus , where each man Thinks all is writ he speken can ; And , to remember what he does , Build his statue to make him glorious : But tidings to the contrary Are brought your eyes ; what need speak I ? DUMB SHOW . Enter at one door PERICLES talking with CLEON ; all the train with them . Enter at another door a Gentleman , with a letter to PERICLES ; PERICLES shows the letter to CLEON ; gives the Messenger a reward , and knights him . Exit PERICLES at one door , and CLEON at another Good Helicane , that stay 'd at home , Not to eat honey like a drone From others ' labours ; for though he strive To killen bad , keep good alive ; And to fulfil his prince ' desire , Sends word of all that haps in Tyre : How Thaliard came full bent with sin And had intent to murder him ; And that in Tarsus was not best Longer for him to make his rest . He , doing so , put forth to seas , Where when men been , there 's seldom ease ; For now the wind begins to blow ; Thunder above and deeps below Make such unquiet , that the ship Should house him safe is wreck 'd and split ; And he , good prince , having all lost , By waves from coast to coast is tost : All perishen of man , of pelf , Ne aught escapen but himself ; Till fortune , tired with doing bad , Threw him ashore , to give him glad : And here he comes . What shall be next , Pardon old Gower , --this longs the text . Exit Enter PERICLES , wet
