First Fisherman : What , ho , Pilch !
Second Fisherman : Ha , come and bring away the nets !
First Fisherman : What , Patch-breech , I say !
Third Fisherman : What say you , master ?
First Fisherman : Look how thou stirrest now ! come away , or I 'll fetch thee with a wanion .
Third Fisherman : Faith , master , I am thinking of the poor men that were cast away before us even now .
First Fisherman : Alas , poor souls , it grieved my heart to hear what pitiful cries they made to us to help them , when , well-a-day , we could scarce help ourselves .
Third Fisherman : Nay , master , said not I as much when I saw the porpus how he bounced and tumbled ? they say they 're half fish , half flesh : a plague on them , they ne 'er come but I look to be washed . Master , I marvel how the fishes live in the sea .
First Fisherman : Why , as men do a-land ; the great ones eat up the little ones : I can compare our rich misers to nothing so fitly as to a whale ; a ' plays and tumbles , driving the poor fry before him , and at last devours them all at a mouthful : such whales have I heard on o ' the land , who never leave gaping till they 've swallowed the whole parish , church , steeple , bells , and all .
PERICLES : A pretty moral .
Third Fisherman : But , master , if I had been the sexton , I would have been that day in the belfry .
Second Fisherman : Why , man ?
Third Fisherman : Because he should have swallowed me too : and when I had been in his belly , I would have kept such a jangling of the bells , that he should never have left , till he cast bells , steeple , church , and parish up again . But if the good King Simonides were of my mind , --
PERICLES : Simonides !
Third Fisherman : We would purge the land of these drones , that rob the bee of her honey .
PERICLES : How from the finny subject of the sea These fishers tell the infirmities of men ; And from their watery empire recollect All that may men approve or men detect ! Peace be at your labour , honest fishermen .
Second Fisherman : Honest ! good fellow , what 's that ? If it be a day fits you , search out of the calendar , and nobody look after it .
PERICLES : May see the sea hath cast upon your coast .
Second Fisherman : What a drunken knave was the sea to cast thee in our way !
PERICLES : A man whom both the waters and the wind , In that vast tennis-court , have made the ball For them to play upon , entreats you pity him : He asks of you , that never used to beg .
First Fisherman : No , friend , cannot you beg ? Here 's them in our country Greece gets more with begging than we can do with working .
Second Fisherman : Canst thou catch any fishes , then ?
PERICLES : I never practised it .
Second Fisherman : Nay , then thou wilt starve , sure ; for here 's nothing to be got now-a-days , unless thou canst fish for 't .
PERICLES : What I have been I have forgot to know ; But what I am , want teaches me to think on : A man throng 'd up with cold : my veins are chill , And have no more of life than may suffice To give my tongue that heat to ask your help ; Which if you shall refuse , when I am dead , For that I am a man , pray see me buried .
First Fisherman : Die quoth-a ? Now gods forbid ! I have a gown here ; come , put it on ; keep thee warm . Now , afore me , a handsome fellow ! Come , thou shalt go home , and we 'll have flesh for holidays , fish for fasting-days , and moreo 'er puddings and flap-jacks , and thou shalt be welcome .
