Second Lord : Whose death indeed 's the strongest in our censure : And knowing this kingdom is without a head , -- Like goodly buildings left without a roof Soon fall to ruin , --your noble self , That best know how to rule and how to reign , We thus submit unto , --our sovereign .
All : Live , noble Helicane !
HELICANUS : For honour 's cause , forbear your suffrages : If that you love Prince Pericles , forbear . Take I your wish , I leap into the seas , Where 's hourly trouble for a minute 's ease . A twelvemonth longer , let me entreat you to Forbear the absence of your king : If in which time expired , he not return , I shall with aged patience bear your yoke . But if I cannot win you to this love , Go search like nobles , like noble subjects , And in your search spend your adventurous worth ; Whom if you find , and win unto return , You shall like diamonds sit about his crown .
First Lord : To wisdom he 's a fool that will not yield ; And since Lord Helicane enjoineth us , We with our travels will endeavour us .
HELICANUS : Then you love us , we you , and we 'll clasp hands : When peers thus knit , a kingdom ever stands . Enter SIMONIDES , reading a letter , at one door : the Knights meet him
First Knight : Good morrow to the good Simonides .
SIMONIDES : Knights , from my daughter this I let you know , That for this twelvemonth she 'll not undertake A married life . Her reason to herself is only known , Which yet from her by no means can I get .
Second Knight : May we not get access to her , my lord ?
SIMONIDES : ' Faith , by no means ; she has so strictly tied Her to her chamber , that ' tis impossible . One twelve moons more she 'll wear Diana 's livery ; This by the eye of Cynthia hath she vow 'd And on her virgin honour will not break it .
Third Knight : Loath to bid farewell , we take our leaves .
SIMONIDES : So , They are well dispatch 'd ; now to my daughter 's letter : She tells me here , she 'd wed the stranger knight , Or never more to view nor day nor light . ' Tis well , mistress ; your choice agrees with mine ; I like that well : nay , how absolute she 's in 't , Not minding whether I dislike or no ! Well , I do commend her choice ; And will no longer have it be delay 'd . Soft ! here he comes : I must dissemble it . Enter PERICLES
PERICLES : All fortune to the good Simonides !
SIMONIDES : To you as much , sir ! I am beholding to you For your sweet music this last night : I do Protest my ears were never better fed With such delightful pleasing harmony .
PERICLES : It is your grace 's pleasure to commend ; Not my desert .
SIMONIDES : Sir , you are music 's master .
PERICLES : The worst of all her scholars , my good lord .
SIMONIDES : Let me ask you one thing : What do you think of my daughter , sir ?
PERICLES : A most virtuous princess .
SIMONIDES : And she is fair too , is she not ?
PERICLES : As a fair day in summer , wondrous fair .
SIMONIDES : Sir , my daughter thinks very well of you ; Ay , so well , that you must be her master , And she will be your scholar : therefore look to it .
PERICLES : I am unworthy for her schoolmaster .
SIMONIDES : She thinks not so ; peruse this writing else .
PERICLES : What 's here ? A letter , that she loves the knight of Tyre ! ' Tis the king 's subtlety to have my life . O , seek not to entrap me , gracious lord , A stranger and distressed gentleman , That never aim 'd so high to love your daughter , But bent all offices to honour her .
SIMONIDES : Thou hast bewitch 'd my daughter , and thou art A villain .
