HORTENSIO : Petruchio , since we are stepp 'd thus far in , I will continue that I broach 'd in jest . I can , Petruchio , help thee to a wife With wealth enough and young and beauteous , Brought up as best becomes a gentlewoman : Her only fault , and that is faults enough , Is that she is intolerable curst And shrewd and froward , so beyond all measure That , were my state far worser than it is , I would not wed her for a mine of gold .
PETRUCHIO : Hortensio , peace ! thou know 'st not gold 's effect : Tell me her father 's name and ' tis enough ; For I will board her , though she chide as loud As thunder when the clouds in autumn crack .
HORTENSIO : Her father is Baptista Minola , An affable and courteous gentleman : Her name is Katharina Minola , Renown 'd in Padua for her scolding tongue .
PETRUCHIO : I know her father , though I know not her ; And he knew my deceased father well . I will not sleep , Hortensio , till I see her ; And therefore let me be thus bold with you To give you over at this first encounter , Unless you will accompany me thither .
GRUMIO : I pray you , sir , let him go while the humour lasts . O ' my word , an she knew him as well as I do , she would think scolding would do little good upon him : she may perhaps call him half a score knaves or so : why , that 's nothing ; an he begin once , he 'll rail in his rope-tricks . I 'll tell you what sir , an she stand him but a little , he will throw a figure in her face and so disfigure her with it that she shall have no more eyes to see withal than a cat . You know him not , sir .
HORTENSIO : Tarry , Petruchio , I must go with thee , For in Baptista 's keep my treasure is : He hath the jewel of my life in hold , His youngest daughter , beautiful Binaca , And her withholds from me and other more , Suitors to her and rivals in my love , Supposing it a thing impossible , For those defects I have before rehearsed , That ever Katharina will be woo 'd ; Therefore this order hath Baptista ta 'en , That none shall have access unto Bianca Till Katharina the curst have got a husband .
GRUMIO : Katharina the curst ! A title for a maid of all titles the worst .
HORTENSIO : Now shall my friend Petruchio do me grace , And offer me disguised in sober robes To old Baptista as a schoolmaster Well seen in music , to instruct Bianca ; That so I may , by this device , at least Have leave and leisure to make love to her And unsuspected court her by herself .
GRUMIO : Here 's no knavery ! See , to beguile the old folks , how the young folks lay their heads together ! Enter GREMIO , and LUCENTIO disguised Master , master , look about you : who goes there , ha ?
HORTENSIO : Peace , Grumio ! it is the rival of my love . Petruchio , stand by a while .
GRUMIO : A proper stripling and an amorous !
GREMIO : O , very well ; I have perused the note . Hark you , sir : I 'll have them very fairly bound : All books of love , see that at any hand ; And see you read no other lectures to her : You understand me : over and beside Signior Baptista 's liberality , I 'll mend it with a largess . Take your paper too , And let me have them very well perfumed For she is sweeter than perfume itself To whom they go to . What will you read to her ?
LUCENTIO : Whate 'er I read to her , I 'll plead for you As for my patron , stand you so assured , As firmly as yourself were still in place : Yea , and perhaps with more successful words Than you , unless you were a scholar , sir .
GREMIO : O this learning , what a thing it is !
