LUCENTIO : Hearest thou , Biondello ?
BIONDELLO : I cannot tarry : I knew a wench married in an afternoon as she went to the garden for parsley to stuff a rabbit ; and so may you , sir : and so , adieu , sir . My master hath appointed me to go to Saint Luke 's , to bid the priest be ready to come against you come with your appendix . Exit
LUCENTIO : I may , and will , if she be so contented : She will be pleased ; then wherefore should I doubt ? Hap what hap may , I 'll roundly go about her : It shall go hard if Cambio go without her . Exit Enter PETRUCHIO , KATHARINA , HORTENSIO , and Servants
PETRUCHIO : Come on , i ' God 's name ; once more toward our father 's . Good Lord , how bright and goodly shines the moon !
KATHARINA : The moon ! the sun : it is not moonlight now .
PETRUCHIO : I say it is the moon that shines so bright .
KATHARINA : I know it is the sun that shines so bright .
PETRUCHIO : Now , by my mother 's son , and that 's myself , It shall be moon , or star , or what I list , Or ere I journey to your father 's house . Go on , and fetch our horses back again . Evermore cross 'd and cross 'd ; nothing but cross 'd !
HORTENSIO : Say as he says , or we shall never go .
KATHARINA : Forward , I pray , since we have come so far , And be it moon , or sun , or what you please : An if you please to call it a rush-candle , Henceforth I vow it shall be so for me .
PETRUCHIO : I say it is the moon .
KATHARINA : I know it is the moon .
PETRUCHIO : Nay , then you lie : it is the blessed sun .
KATHARINA : Then , God be bless 'd , it is the blessed sun : But sun it is not , when you say it is not ; And the moon changes even as your mind . What you will have it named , even that it is ; And so it shall be so for Katharina .
HORTENSIO : Petruchio , go thy ways ; the field is won .
PETRUCHIO : Well , forward , forward ! thus the bowl should run , And not unluckily against the bias . But , soft ! company is coming here . Enter VINCENTIO To VINCENTIO Good morrow , gentle mistress : where away ? Tell me , sweet Kate , and tell me truly too , Hast thou beheld a fresher gentlewoman ? Such war of white and red within her cheeks ! What stars do spangle heaven with such beauty , As those two eyes become that heavenly face ? Fair lovely maid , once more good day to thee . Sweet Kate , embrace her for her beauty 's sake .
HORTENSIO : A ' will make the man mad , to make a woman of him .
KATHARINA : Young budding virgin , fair and fresh and sweet , Whither away , or where is thy abode ? Happy the parents of so fair a child ; Happier the man , whom favourable stars Allot thee for his lovely bed-fellow !
PETRUCHIO : Why , how now , Kate ! I hope thou art not mad : This is a man , old , wrinkled , faded , wither 'd , And not a maiden , as thou say 'st he is .
KATHARINA : Pardon , old father , my mistaking eyes , That have been so bedazzled with the sun That everything I look on seemeth green : Now I perceive thou art a reverend father ; Pardon , I pray thee , for my mad mistaking .
PETRUCHIO : Do , good old grandsire ; and withal make known Which way thou travellest : if along with us , We shall be joyful of thy company .
