TRANIO : Why , sir , I pray , are not the streets as free For me as for you ?
GREMIO : But so is not she .
TRANIO : For what reason , I beseech you ?
GREMIO : For this reason , if you 'll know , That she 's the choice love of Signior Gremio .
HORTENSIO : That she 's the chosen of Signior Hortensio .
TRANIO : Softly , my masters ! if you be gentlemen , Do me this right ; hear me with patience . Baptista is a noble gentleman , To whom my father is not all unknown ; And were his daughter fairer than she is , She may more suitors have and me for one . Fair Leda 's daughter had a thousand wooers ; Then well one more may fair Bianca have : And so she shall ; Lucentio shall make one , Though Paris came in hope to speed alone .
GREMIO : What ! this gentleman will out-talk us all .
LUCENTIO : Sir , give him head : I know he 'll prove a jade .
PETRUCHIO : Hortensio , to what end are all these words ?
HORTENSIO : Sir , let me be so bold as ask you , Did you yet ever see Baptista 's daughter ?
TRANIO : No , sir ; but hear I do that he hath two , The one as famous for a scolding tongue As is the other for beauteous modesty .
PETRUCHIO : Sir , sir , the first 's for me ; let her go by .
GREMIO : Yea , leave that labour to great Hercules ; And let it be more than Alcides ' twelve .
PETRUCHIO : Sir , understand you this of me in sooth : The younges t daughter whom you hearken for Her father keeps from all access of suitors , And will not promise her to any man Until the elder sister first be wed : The younger then is free and not before .
TRANIO : If it be so , sir , that you are the man Must stead us all and me amongst the rest , And if you break the ice and do this feat , Achieve the elder , set the younger free For our access , whose hap shall be to have her Will not so graceless be to be ingrate .
HORTENSIO : Sir , you say well and well you do conceive ; And since you do profess to be a suitor , You must , as we do , gratify this gentleman , To whom we all rest generally beholding .
TRANIO : Sir , I shall not be slack : in sign whereof , Please ye we may contrive this afternoon , And quaff carouses to our mistress ' health , And do as adversaries do in law , Strive mightily , but eat and drink as friends .
GRUMIO BIONDELLO : O excellent motion ! Fellows , let 's be gone .
HORTENSIO : The motion 's good indeed and be it so , Petruchio , I shall be your ben venuto . Enter KATHARINA and BIANCA
BIANCA : Good sister , wrong me not , nor wrong yourself , To make a bondmaid and a slave of me ; That I disdain : but for these other gawds , Unbind my hands , I 'll pull them off myself , Yea , all my raiment , to my petticoat ; Or what you will command me will I do , So well I know my duty to my elders .
KATHARINA : Of all thy suitors , here I charge thee , tell Whom thou lovest best : see thou dissemble not .
BIANCA : Believe me , sister , of all the men alive I never yet beheld that special face Which I could fancy more than any other .
KATHARINA : Minion , thou liest . Is 't not Hortensio ?
BIANCA : If you affect him , sister , here I swear I 'll plead for you myself , but you shall have him .
KATHARINA : O then , belike , you fancy riches more : You will have Gremio to keep you fair .
BIANCA : Is it for him you do envy me so ? Nay then you jest , and now I well perceive You have but jested with me all this while : I prithee , sister Kate , untie my hands .
