LUCENTIO : Tell me thine first .
TRANIO : You will be schoolmaster And undertake the teaching of the maid : That 's your device .
LUCENTIO : It is : may it be done ?
TRANIO : Not possible ; for who shall bear your part , And be in Padua here Vincentio 's son , Keep house and ply his book , welcome his friends , Visit his countrymen and banquet them ?
LUCENTIO : Basta ; content thee , for I have it full . We have not yet been seen in any house , Nor can we lie distinguish 'd by our faces For man or master ; then it follows thus ; Thou shalt be master , Tranio , in my stead , Keep house and port and servants as I should : I will some other be , some Florentine , Some Neapolitan , or meaner man of Pisa . ' Tis hatch 'd and shall be so : Tranio , at once Uncase thee ; take my colour 'd hat and cloak : When Biondello comes , he waits on thee ; But I will charm him first to keep his tongue .
TRANIO : So had you need . In brief , sir , sith it your pleasure is , And I am tied to be obedient ; For so your father charged me at our parting , ' Be serviceable to my son , ' quoth he , Although I think ' twas in another sense ; I am content to be Lucentio , Because so well I love Lucentio .
LUCENTIO : Tranio , be so , because Lucentio loves : And let me be a slave , to achieve that maid Whose sudden sight hath thrall 'd my wounded eye . Here comes the rogue . Enter BIONDELLO Sirrah , where have you been ?
BIONDELLO : Where have I been ! Nay , how now ! where are you ? Master , has my fellow Tranio stolen your clothes ? Or you stolen his ? or both ? pray , what 's the news ?
LUCENTIO : Sirrah , come hither : ' tis no time to jest , And therefore frame your manners to the time . Your fellow Tranio here , to save my life , Puts my apparel and my countenance on , And I for my escape have put on his ; For in a quarrel since I came ashore I kill 'd a man and fear I was descried : Wait you on him , I charge you , as becomes , While I make way from hence to save my life : You understand me ?
BIONDELLO : I , sir ! ne 'er a whit .
LUCENTIO : And not a jot of Tranio in your mouth : Tranio is changed into Lucentio .
BIONDELLO : The better for him : would I were so too !
TRANIO : So could I , faith , boy , to have the next wish after , That Lucentio indeed had Baptista 's youngest daughter . But , sirrah , not for my sake , but your master 's , I advise You use your manners discreetly in all kind of companies : When I am alone , why , then I am Tranio ; But in all places else your master Lucentio .
LUCENTIO : Tranio , let 's go : one thing more rests , that thyself execute , to make one among these wooers : if thou ask me why , sufficeth , my reasons are both good and weighty . The presenters above speak
First Servant : My lord , you nod ; you do not mind the play .
SLY : Yes , by Saint Anne , do I. A good matter , surely : comes there any more of it ?
Page : My lord , ' tis but begun .
SLY : ' Tis a very excellent piece of work , madam lady : would ' twere done ! They sit and mark Enter PETRUCHIO and his man GRUMIO
PETRUCHIO : Verona , for a while I take my leave , To see my friends in Padua , but of all My best beloved and approved friend , Hortensio ; and I trow this is his house . Here , sirrah Grumio ; knock , I say .
GRUMIO : Knock , sir ! whom should I knock ? is there man has rebused your worship ?
