TRANIO : A vengeance on your crafty wither 'd hide ! Yet I have faced it with a card of ten . ' Tis in my head to do my master good : I see no reason but supposed Lucentio Must get a father , call 'd ' supposed Vincentio ; ' And that 's a wonder : fathers commonly Do get their children ; but in this case of wooing , A child shall get a sire , if I fail not of my cunning . Exit Enter LUCENTIO , HORTENSIO , and BIANCA
LUCENTIO : Fiddler , forbear ; you grow too forward , sir : Have you so soon forgot the entertainment Her sister Katharina welcomed you withal ?
HORTENSIO : But , wrangling pedant , this is The patroness of heavenly harmony : Then give me leave to have prerogative ; And when in music we have spent an hour , Your lecture shall have leisure for as much .
LUCENTIO : Preposterous ass , that never read so far To know the cause why music was ordain 'd ! Was it not to refresh the mind of man After his studies or his usual pain ? Then give me leave to read philosophy , And while I pause , serve in your harmony .
HORTENSIO : Sirrah , I will not bear these braves of thine .
BIANCA : Why , gentlemen , you do me double wrong , To strive for that which resteth in my choice : I am no breeching scholar in the schools ; I 'll not be tied to hours nor ' pointed times , But learn my lessons as I please myself . And , to cut off all strife , here sit we down : Take you your instrument , play you the whiles ; His lecture will be done ere you have tuned .
HORTENSIO : You 'll leave his lecture when I am in tune ?
LUCENTIO : That will be never : tune your instrument .
BIANCA : Where left we last ?
LUCENTIO : Here , madam : ' Hic ibat Simois ; hic est Sigeia tellus ; Hic steterat Priami regia celsa senis . ' 
BIANCA : Construe them .
LUCENTIO : ' Hic ibat , ' as I told you before , ' Simois , ' I am Lucentio , ' hic est , ' son unto Vincentio of Pisa , ' Sigeia tellus , ' disguised thus to get your love ; ' Hic steterat , ' and that Lucentio that comes a-wooing , ' Priami , ' is my man Tranio , ' regia , ' bearing my port , ' celsa senis , ' that we might beguile the old pantaloon .
HORTENSIO : Madam , my instrument 's in tune .
BIANCA : Let 's hear . O fie ! the treble jars .
LUCENTIO : Spit in the hole , man , and tune again .
BIANCA : Now let me see if I can construe it : ' Hic ibat Simois , ' I know you not , ' hic est Sigeia tellus , ' I trust you not ; ' Hic steterat Priami , ' take heed he hear us not , ' regia , ' presume not , ' celsa senis , ' despair not .
HORTENSIO : Madam , ' tis now in tune .
LUCENTIO : All but the base .
HORTENSIO : The base is right ; ' tis the base knave that jars . Aside How fiery and forward our pedant is ! Now , for my life , the knave doth court my love : Pedascule , I 'll watch you better yet .
BIANCA : In time I may believe , yet I mistrust .
LUCENTIO : Mistrust it not : for , sure , AEacides Was Ajax , call 'd so from his grandfather .
BIANCA : I must believe my master ; else , I promise you , I should be arguing still upon that doubt : But let it rest . Now , Licio , to you : Good masters , take it not unkindly , pray , That I have been thus pleasant with you both .
HORTENSIO : You may go walk , and give me leave a while : My lessons make no music in three parts .
