LUCENTIO : Gramercies , Tranio , well dost thou advise . If , Biondello , thou wert come ashore , We could at once put us in readiness , And take a lodging fit to entertain Such friends as time in Padua shall beget . But stay a while : what company is this ?
TRANIO : Master , some show to welcome us to town . Enter BAPTISTA , KATHARINA , BIANCA , GREMIO , and HORTENSIO . LUCENTIO and TRANIO stand by
BAPTISTA : Gentlemen , importune me no farther , For how I firmly am resolved you know ; That is , not bestow my youngest daughter Before I have a husband for the elder : If either of you both love Katharina , Because I know you well and love you well , Leave shall you have to court her at your pleasure .
GREMIO : To cart her rather : she 's too rough for me . There , There , Hortensio , will you any wife ?
KATHARINA : I pray you , sir , is it your will To make a stale of me amongst these mates ?
HORTENSIO : Mates , maid ! how mean you that ? no mates for you , Unless you were of gentler , milder mould .
KATHARINA : I 'faith , sir , you shall never need to fear : I wis it is not half way to her heart ; But if it were , doubt not her care should be To comb your noddle with a three-legg 'd stool And paint your face and use you like a fool .
HORTENSIA : From all such devils , good Lord deliver us !
GREMIO : And me too , good Lord !
TRANIO : Hush , master ! here 's some good pastime toward : That wench is stark mad or wonderful froward .
LUCENTIO : But in the other 's silence do I see Maid 's mild behavior and sobriety . Peace , Tranio !
TRANIO : Well said , master ; mum ! and gaze your fill .
BAPTISTA : Gentlemen , that I may soon make good What I have said , Bianca , get you in : And let it not displease thee , good Bianca , For I will love thee ne 'er the less , my girl .
KATHARINA : A pretty peat ! it is best Put finger in the eye , an she knew why .
BIANCA : Sister , content you in my discontent . Sir , to your pleasure humbly I subscribe : My books and instruments shall be my company , On them to took and practise by myself .
LUCENTIO : Hark , Tranio ! thou may 'st hear Minerva speak .
HORTENSIO : Signior Baptista , will you be so strange ? Sorry am I that our good will effects Bianca 's grief .
GREMIO : Why will you mew her up , Signior Baptista , for this fiend of hell , And make her bear the penance of her tongue ?
BAPTISTA : Gentlemen , content ye ; I am resolved : Go in , Bianca : Exit BIANCA And for I know she taketh most delight In music , instruments and poetry , Schoolmasters will I keep within my house , Fit to instruct her youth . If you , Hortensio , Or Signior Gremio , you , know any such , Prefer them hither ; for to cunning men I will be very kind , and liberal To mine own children in good bringing up : And so farewell . Katharina , you may stay ; For I have more to commune with Bianca . Exit
KATHARINA : Why , and I trust I may go too , may I not ? What , shall I be appointed hours ; as though , belike , I knew not what to take and what to leave , ha ? Exit
GREMIO : You may go to the devil 's dam : your gifts are so good , here 's none will hold you . Their love is not so great , Hortensio , but we may blow our nails together , and fast it fairly out : our cakes dough on both sides . Farewell : yet for the love I bear my sweet Bianca , if I can by any means light on a fit man to teach her that wherein she delights , I will wish him to her father .
