PETRUCHIO : Nay , I will win my wager better yet And show more sign of her obedience , Her new-built virtue and obedience . See where she comes and brings your froward wives As prisoners to her womanly persuasion . Re-enter KATHARINA , with BIANCA and Widow Katharina , that cap of yours becomes you not : Off with that bauble , throw it under-foot .
Widow : Lord , let me never have a cause to sigh , Till I be brought to such a silly pass !
BIANCA : Fie ! what a foolish duty call you this ?
LUCENTIO : I would your duty were as foolish too : The wisdom of your duty , fair Bianca , Hath cost me an hundred crowns since supper-time .
BIANCA : The more fool you , for laying on my duty .
PETRUCHIO : Katharina , I charge thee , tell these headstrong women What duty they do owe their lords and husbands .
Widow : Come , come , you 're mocking : we will have no telling .
PETRUCHIO : Come on , I say ; and first begin with her .
Widow : She shall not .
PETRUCHIO : I say she shall : and first begin with her .
KATHARINA : Fie , fie ! unknit that threatening unkind brow , And dart not scornful glances from those eyes , To wound thy lord , thy king , thy governor : It blots thy beauty as frosts do bite the meads , Confounds thy fame as whirlwinds shake fair buds , And in no sense is meet or amiable . A woman moved is like a fountain troubled , Muddy , ill-seeming , thick , bereft of beauty ; And while it is so , none so dry or thirsty Will deign to sip or touch one drop of it . Thy husband is thy lord , thy life , thy keeper , Thy head , thy sovereign ; one that cares for thee , And for thy maintenance commits his body To painful labour both by sea and land , To watch the night in storms , the day in cold , Whilst thou liest warm at home , secure and safe ; And craves no other tribute at thy hands But love , fair looks and true obedience ; Too little payment for so great a debt . Such duty as the subject owes the prince Even such a woman oweth to her husband ; And when she is froward , peevish , sullen , sour , And not obedient to his honest will , What is she but a foul contending rebel And graceless traitor to her loving lord ? I am ashamed that women are so simple To offer war where they should kneel for peace ; Or seek for rule , supremacy and sway , When they are bound to serve , love and obey . Why are our bodies soft and weak and smooth , Unapt to toil and trouble in the world , But that our soft conditions and our hearts Should well agree with our external parts ? Come , come , you froward and unable worms ! My mind hath been as big as one of yours , My heart as great , my reason haply more , To bandy word for word and frown for frown ; But now I see our lances are but straws , Our strength as weak , our weakness past compare , That seeming to be most which we indeed least are . Then vail your stomachs , for it is no boot , And place your hands below your husband 's foot : In token of which duty , if he please , My hand is ready ; may it do him ease .
PETRUCHIO : Why , there 's a wench ! Come on , and kiss me , Kate .
LUCENTIO : Well , go thy ways , old lad ; for thou shalt ha 't .
VINCENTIO : ' Tis a good hearing when children are toward .
LUCENTIO : But a harsh hearing when women are froward .
PETRUCHIO : Come , Kate , we 'll to bed . We three are married , but you two are sped . To LUCENTIO ' Twas I won the wager , though you hit the white ; And , being a winner , God give you good night !
HORTENSIO : Now , go thy ways ; thou hast tamed a curst shrew .
