SLY : Now Lord be thanked for my good amends !
ALL : Amen .
SLY : I thank thee : thou shalt not lose by it . Enter the Page as a lady , with attendants
Page : How fares my noble lord ?
SLY : Marry , I fare well for here is cheer enough . Where is my wife ?
Page : Here , noble lord : what is thy will with her ?
SLY : Are you my wife and will not call me husband ? My men should call me ' lord : ' I am your goodman .
Page : My husband and my lord , my lord and husband ; I am your wife in all obedience .
SLY : I know it well . What must I call her ?
Lord : Madam .
SLY : Al 'ce madam , or Joan madam ?
Lord : ' Madam , ' and nothing else : so lords call ladies .
SLY : Madam wife , they say that I have dream 'd And slept above some fifteen year or more .
Page : Ay , and the time seems thirty unto me , Being all this time abandon 'd from your bed .
SLY : ' Tis much . Servants , leave me and her alone . Madam , undress you and come now to bed .
Page : Thrice noble lord , let me entreat of you To pardon me yet for a night or two , Or , if not so , until the sun be set : For your physicians have expressly charged , In peril to incur your former malady , That I should yet absent me from your bed : I hope this reason stands for my excuse .
SLY : Ay , it stands so that I may hardly tarry so long . But I would be loath to fall into my dreams again : I will therefore tarry in despite of the flesh and the blood . Enter a Messenger
Messenger : Your honour 's players , heating your amendment , Are come to play a pleasant comedy ; For so your doctors hold it very meet , Seeing too much sadness hath congeal 'd your blood , And melancholy is the nurse of frenzy : Therefore they thought it good you hear a play And frame your mind to mirth and merriment , Which bars a thousand harms and lengthens life .
SLY : Marry , I will , let them play it . Is not a comondy a Christmas gambold or a tumbling-trick ?
Page : No , my good lord ; it is more pleasing stuff .
SLY : What , household stuff ?
Page : It is a kind of history .
SLY : Well , well see 't . Come , madam wife , sit by my side and let the world slip : we shall ne 'er be younger . Flourish Enter LUCENTIO and his man TRANIO
LUCENTIO : Tranio , since for the great desire I had To see fair Padua , nursery of arts , I am arrived for fruitful Lombardy , The pleasant garden of great Italy ; And by my father 's love and leave am arm 'd With his good will and thy good company , My trusty servant , well approved in all , Here let us breathe and haply institute A course of learning and ingenious studies . Pisa renown 'd for grave citizens Gave me my being and my father first , A merchant of great traffic through the world , Vincetino come of Bentivolii . Vincetino 's son brought up in Florence It shall become to serve all hopes conceived , To deck his fortune with his virtuous deeds : And therefore , Tranio , for the time I study , Virtue and that part of philosophy Will I apply that treats of happiness By virtue specially to be achieved . Tell me thy mind ; for I have Pisa left And am to Padua come , as he that leaves A shallow plash to plunge him in the deep And with satiety seeks to quench his thirst .
