CURTIS : I prithee , good Grumio , tell me , how goes the world ?
GRUMIO : A cold world , Curtis , in every office but thine ; and therefore fire : do thy duty , and have thy duty ; for my master and mistress are almost frozen to death .
CURTIS : There 's fire ready ; and therefore , good Grumio , the news .
GRUMIO : Why , ' Jack , boy ! ho ! boy ! ' and as much news as will thaw .
CURTIS : Come , you are so full of cony-catching !
GRUMIO : Why , therefore fire ; for I have caught extreme cold . Where 's the cook ? is supper ready , the house trimmed , rushes strewed , cobwebs swept ; the serving-men in their new fustian , their white stockings , and every officer his wedding-garment on ? Be the jacks fair within , the jills fair without , the carpets laid , and every thing in order ?
CURTIS : All ready ; and therefore , I pray thee , news .
GRUMIO : First , know , my horse is tired ; my master and mistress fallen out .
CURTIS : How ?
GRUMIO : Out of their saddles into the dirt ; and thereby hangs a tale .
CURTIS : Let 's ha 't , good Grumio .
GRUMIO : Lend thine ear .
CURTIS : Here .
GRUMIO : There . Strikes him
CURTIS : This is to feel a tale , not to hear a tale .
GRUMIO : And therefore ' tis called a sensible tale : and this cuff was but to knock at your ear , and beseech listening . Now I begin : Imprimis , we came down a foul hill , my master riding behind my mistress , --
CURTIS : Both of one horse ?
GRUMIO : What 's that to thee ?
CURTIS : Why , a horse .
GRUMIO : Tell thou the tale : but hadst thou not crossed me , thou shouldst have heard how her horse fell and she under her horse ; thou shouldst have heard in how miry a place , how she was bemoiled , how he left her with the horse upon her , how he beat me because her horse stumbled , how she waded through the dirt to pluck him off me , how he swore , how she prayed , that never prayed before , how I cried , how the horses ran away , how her bridle was burst , how I lost my crupper , with many things of worthy memory , which now shall die in oblivion and thou return unexperienced to thy grave .
CURTIS : By this reckoning he is more shrew than she .
GRUMIO : Ay ; and that thou and the proudest of you all shall find when he comes home . But what talk I of this ? Call forth Nathaniel , Joseph , Nicholas , Philip , Walter , Sugarsop and the rest : let their heads be sleekly combed their blue coats brushed and their garters of an indifferent knit : let them curtsy with their left legs and not presume to touch a hair of my master 's horse-tail till they kiss their hands . Are they all ready ?
CURTIS : They are .
GRUMIO : Call them forth .
CURTIS : Do you hear , ho ? you must meet my master to countenance my mistress .
GRUMIO : Why , she hath a face of her own .
CURTIS : Who knows not that ?
GRUMIO : Thou , it seems , that calls for company to countenance her .
CURTIS : I call them forth to credit her .
GRUMIO : Why , she comes to borrow nothing of them . Enter four or five Serving-men
NATHANIEL : Welcome home , Grumio !
PHILIP : How now , Grumio !
JOSEPH : What , Grumio !
NICHOLAS : Fellow Grumio !
NATHANIEL : How now , old lad ?
GRUMIO : Welcome , you ; --how now , you ; -- what , you ; --fellow , you ; --and thus much for greeting . Now , my spruce companions , is all ready , and all things neat ?
NATHANIEL : All things is ready . How near is our master ?
