GRUMIO : No , no , forsooth ; I dare not for my life .
KATHARINA : The more my wrong , the more his spite appears : What , did he marry me to famish me ? Beggars , that come unto my father 's door , Upon entreaty have a present aims ; If not , elsewhere they meet with charity : But I , who never knew how to entreat , Nor never needed that I should entreat , Am starved for meat , giddy for lack of sleep , With oath kept waking and with brawling fed : And that which spites me more than all these wants , He does it under name of perfect love ; As who should say , if I should sleep or eat , ' Twere deadly sickness or else present death . I prithee go and get me some repast ; I care not what , so it be wholesome food .
GRUMIO : What say you to a neat 's foot ?
KATHARINA : ' Tis passing good : I prithee let me have it .
GRUMIO : I fear it is too choleric a meat . How say you to a fat tripe finely broil 'd ?
KATHARINA : I like it well : good Grumio , fetch it me .
GRUMIO : I cannot tell ; I fear ' tis choleric . What say you to a piece of beef and mustard ?
KATHARINA : A dish that I do love to feed upon .
GRUMIO : Ay , but the mustard is too hot a little .
KATHARINA : Why then , the beef , and let the mustard rest .
GRUMIO : Nay then , I will not : you shall have the mustard , Or else you get no beef of Grumio .
KATHARINA : Then both , or one , or any thing thou wilt .
GRUMIO : Why then , the mustard without the beef .
KATHARINA : Go , get thee gone , thou false deluding slave , Beats him That feed 'st me with the very name of meat : Sorrow on thee and all the pack of you , That triumph thus upon my misery ! Go , get thee gone , I say . Enter PETRUCHIO and HORTENSIO with meat
PETRUCHIO : How fares my Kate ? What , sweeting , all amort ?
HORTENSIO : Mistress , what cheer ?
KATHARINA : Faith , as cold as can be .
PETRUCHIO : Pluck up thy spirits ; look cheerfully upon me . Here love ; thou see 'st how diligent I am To dress thy meat myself and bring it thee : I am sure , sweet Kate , this kindness merits thanks . What , not a word ? Nay , then thou lovest it not ; And all my pains is sorted to no proof . Here , take away this dish .
KATHARINA : I pray you , let it stand .
PETRUCHIO : The poorest service is repaid with thanks ; And so shall mine , before you touch the meat .
KATHARINA : I thank you , sir .
HORTENSIO : Signior Petruchio , fie ! you are to blame . Come , mistress Kate , I 'll bear you company .
PETRUCHIO : Eat it up all , Hortensio , if thou lovest me . Much good do it unto thy gentle heart ! Kate , eat apace : and now , my honey love , Will we return unto thy father 's house And revel it as bravely as the best , With silken coats and caps and golden rings , With ruffs and cuffs and fardingales and things ; With scarfs and fans and double change of bravery , With amber bracelets , beads and all this knavery . What , hast thou dined ? The tailor stays thy leisure , To deck thy body with his ruffling treasure . Enter Tailor Come , tailor , let us see these ornaments ; Lay forth the gown . Enter Haberdasher What news with you , sir ?
Haberdasher : Here is the cap your worship did bespeak .
