TRANIO : ' Twas a commodity lay fretting by you : ' Twill bring you gain , or perish on the seas .
BAPTISTA : The gain I seek is , quiet in the match .
GREMIO : No doubt but he hath got a quiet catch . But now , Baptists , to your younger daughter : Now is the day we long have looked for : I am your neighbour , and was suitor first .
TRANIO : And I am one that love Bianca more Than words can witness , or your thoughts can guess .
GREMIO : Youngling , thou canst not love so dear as I.
TRANIO : Graybeard , thy love doth freeze .
GREMIO : But thine doth fry . Skipper , stand back : ' tis age that nourisheth .
TRANIO : But youth in ladies ' eyes that flourisheth .
BAPTISTA : Content you , gentlemen : I will compound this strife : ' Tis deeds must win the prize ; and he of both That can assure my daughter greatest dower Shall have my Bianca 's love . Say , Signior Gremio , What can you assure her ?
GREMIO : First , as you know , my house within the city Is richly furnished with plate and gold ; Basins and ewers to lave her dainty hands ; My hangings all of Tyrian tapestry ; In ivory coffers I have stuff 'd my crowns ; In cypress chests my arras counterpoints , Costly apparel , tents , and canopies , Fine linen , Turkey cushions boss 'd with pearl , Valance of Venice gold in needlework , Pewter and brass and all things that belong To house or housekeeping : then , at my farm I have a hundred milch-kine to the pail , Sixscore fat oxen standing in my stalls , And all things answerable to this portion . Myself am struck in years , I must confess ; And if I die to-morrow , this is hers , If whilst I live she will be only mine .
TRANIO : That ' only ' came well in . Sir , list to me : I am my father 's heir and only son : If I may have your daughter to my wife , I 'll leave her houses three or four as good , Within rich Pisa walls , as any one Old Signior Gremio has in Padua ; Besides two thousand ducats by the year Of fruitful land , all which shall be her jointure . What , have I pinch 'd you , Signior Gremio ?
GREMIO : Two thousand ducats by the year of land ! My land amounts not to so much in all : That she shall have ; besides an argosy That now is lying in Marseilles ' road . What , have I choked you with an argosy ?
TRANIO : Gremio , ' tis known my father hath no less Than three great argosies ; besides two galliases , And twelve tight galleys : these I will assure her , And twice as much , whate 'er thou offer 'st next .
GREMIO : Nay , I have offer 'd all , I have no more ; And she can have no more than all I have : If you like me , she shall have me and mine .
TRANIO : Why , then the maid is mine from all the world , By your firm promise : Gremio is out-vied .
BAPTISTA : I must confess your offer is the best ; And , let your father make her the assurance , She is your own ; else , you must pardon me , if you should die before him , where 's her dower ?
TRANIO : That 's but a cavil : he is old , I young .
GREMIO : And may not young men die , as well as old ?
BAPTISTA : Well , gentlemen , I am thus resolved : on Sunday next you know My daughter Katharina is to be married : Now , on the Sunday following , shall Bianca Be bride to you , if you this assurance ; If not , Signior Gremio : And so , I take my leave , and thank you both .
