BAPTISTA : Who comes with him ?
BIONDELLO : O , sir , his lackey , for all the world caparisoned like the horse ; with a linen stock on one leg and a kersey boot-hose on the other , gartered with a red and blue list ; an old hat and ' the humour of forty fancies ' pricked in 't for a feather : a monster , a very monster in apparel , and not like a Christian footboy or a gentleman 's lackey .
TRANIO : ' Tis some odd humour pricks him to this fashion ; Yet oftentimes he goes but mean-apparell 'd .
BAPTISTA : I am glad he 's come , howsoe 'er he comes .
BIONDELLO : Why , sir , he comes not .
BAPTISTA : Didst thou not say he comes ?
BIONDELLO : Who ? that Petruchio came ?
BAPTISTA : Ay , that Petruchio came .
BIONDELLO : No , sir , I say his horse comes , with him on his back .
BAPTISTA : Why , that 's all one .
BIONDELLO : Nay , by Saint Jamy , I hold you a penny , A horse and a man Is more than one , And yet not many . Enter PETRUCHIO and GRUMIO
PETRUCHIO : Come , where be these gallants ? who 's at home ?
BAPTISTA : You are welcome , sir .
PETRUCHIO : And yet I come not well .
BAPTISTA : And yet you halt not .
TRANIO : Not so well apparell 'd As I wish you were .
PETRUCHIO : Were it better , I should rush in thus . But where is Kate ? where is my lovely bride ? How does my father ? Gentles , methinks you frown : And wherefore gaze this goodly company , As if they saw some wondrous monument , Some comet or unusual prodigy ?
BAPTISTA : Why , sir , you know this is your wedding-day : First were we sad , fearing you would not come ; Now sadder , that you come so unprovided . Fie , doff this habit , shame to your estate , An eye-sore to our solemn festival !
TRANIO : And tells us , what occasion of import Hath all so long detain 'd you from your wife , And sent you hither so unlike yourself ?
PETRUCHIO : Tedious it were to tell , and harsh to hear : Sufficeth I am come to keep my word , Though in some part enforced to digress ; Which , at more leisure , I will so excuse As you shall well be satisfied withal . But where is Kate ? I stay too long from her : The morning wears , ' tis time we were at church .
TRANIO : See not your bride in these unreverent robes : Go to my chamber ; Put on clothes of mine .
PETRUCHIO : Not I , believe me : thus I 'll visit her .
BAPTISTA : But thus , I trust , you will not marry her .
PETRUCHIO : Good sooth , even thus ; therefore ha ' done with words : To me she 's married , not unto my clothes : Could I repair what she will wear in me , As I can change these poor accoutrements , ' Twere well for Kate and better for myself . But what a fool am I to chat with you , When I should bid good morrow to my bride , And seal the title with a lovely kiss !
TRANIO : He hath some meaning in his mad attire : We will persuade him , be it possible , To put on better ere he go to church .
BAPTISTA : I 'll after him , and see the event of this .
TRANIO : But to her love concerneth us to add Her father 's liking : which to bring to pass , As I before unparted to your worship , I am to get a man , --whate 'er he be , It skills not much. we 'll fit him to our turn , -- And he shall be Vincentio of Pisa ; And make assurance here in Padua Of greater sums than I have promised . So shall you quietly enjoy your hope , And marry sweet Bianca with consent .
