SLY : What , would you make me mad ? Am not I Christopher Sly , old Sly 's son of Burtonheath , by birth a pedlar , by education a cardmaker , by transmutation a bear-herd , and now by present profession a tinker ? Ask Marian Hacket , the fat ale-wife of Wincot , if she know me not : if she say I am not fourteen pence on the score for sheer ale , score me up for the lyingest knave in Christendom . What ! I am not bestraught : here 's--
Third Servant : O , this it is that makes your lady mourn !
Second Servant : O , this is it that makes your servants droop !
Lord : Hence comes it that your kindred shuns your house , As beaten hence by your strange lunacy . O noble lord , bethink thee of thy birth , Call home thy ancient thoughts from banishment And banish hence these abject lowly dreams . Look how thy servants do attend on thee , Each in his office ready at thy beck . Wilt thou have music ? hark ! Apollo plays , Music And twenty caged nightingales do sing : Or wilt thou sleep ? we 'll have thee to a couch Softer and sweeter than the lustful bed On purpose trimm 'd up for Semiramis . Say thou wilt walk ; we will bestrew the ground : Or wilt thou ride ? thy horses shall be trapp 'd , Their harness studded all with gold and pearl . Dost thou love hawking ? thou hast hawks will soar Above the morning lark or wilt thou hunt ? Thy hounds shall make the welkin answer them And fetch shrill echoes from the hollow earth .
First Servant : Say thou wilt course ; thy greyhounds are as swift As breathed stags , ay , fleeter than the roe .
Second Servant : Dost thou love pictures ? we will fetch thee straight Adonis painted by a running brook , And Cytherea all in sedges hid , Which seem to move and wanton with her breath , Even as the waving sedges play with wind .
Lord : We 'll show thee Io as she was a maid , And how she was beguiled and surprised , As lively painted as the deed was done .
Third Servant : Or Daphne roaming through a thorny wood , Scratching her legs that one shall swear she bleeds , And at that sight shall sad Apollo weep , So workmanly the blood and tears are drawn .
Lord : Thou art a lord , and nothing but a lord : Thou hast a lady far more beautiful Than any woman in this waning age .
First Servant : And till the tears that she hath shed for thee Like envious floods o 'er-run her lovely face , She was the fairest creature in the world ; And yet she is inferior to none .
SLY : Am I a lord ? and have I such a lady ? Or do I dream ? or have I dream 'd till now ? I do not sleep : I see , I hear , I speak ; I smell sweet savours and I feel soft things : Upon my life , I am a lord indeed And not a tinker nor Christophero Sly . Well , bring our lady hither to our sight ; And once again , a pot o ' the smallest ale .
Second Servant : Will 't please your mightiness to wash your hands ? O , how we joy to see your wit restored ! O , that once more you knew but what you are ! These fifteen years you have been in a dream ; Or when you waked , so waked as if you slept .
SLY : These fifteen years ! by my fay , a goodly nap . But did I never speak of all that time ?
First Servant : O , yes , my lord , but very idle words : For though you lay here in this goodly chamber , Yet would you say ye were beaten out of door ; And rail upon the hostess of the house ; And say you would present her at the leet , Because she brought stone jugs and no seal 'd quarts : Sometimes you would call out for Cicely Hacket .
SLY : Ay , the woman 's maid of the house .
