KATHARINA : Go , fool , and whom thou keep 'st command .
PETRUCHIO : Did ever Dian so become a grove As Kate this chamber with her princely gait ? O , be thou Dian , and let her be Kate ; And then let Kate be chaste and Dian sportful !
KATHARINA : Where did you study all this goodly speech ?
PETRUCHIO : It is extempore , from my mother-wit .
KATHARINA : A witty mother ! witless else her son .
PETRUCHIO : Am I not wise ?
KATHARINA : Yes ; keep you warm .
PETRUCHIO : Marry , so I mean , sweet Katharina , in thy bed : And therefore , setting all this chat aside , Thus in plain terms : your father hath consented That you shall be my wife ; your dowry ' greed on ; And , Will you , nill you , I will marry you . Now , Kate , I am a husband for your turn ; For , by this light , whereby I see thy beauty , Thy beauty , that doth make me like thee well , Thou must be married to no man but me ; For I am he am born to tame you Kate , And bring you from a wild Kate to a Kate Conformable as other household Kates . Here comes your father : never make denial ; I must and will have Katharina to my wife . Re-enter BAPTISTA , GREMIO , and TRANIO
BAPTISTA : Now , Signior Petruchio , how speed you with my daughter ?
PETRUCHIO : How but well , sir ? how but well ? It were impossible I should speed amiss .
BAPTISTA : Why , how now , daughter Katharina ! in your dumps ?
KATHARINA : Call you me daughter ? now , I promise you You have show 'd a tender fatherly regard , To wish me wed to one half lunatic ; A mad-cup ruffian and a swearing Jack , That thinks with oaths to face the matter out .
PETRUCHIO : Father , ' tis thus : yourself and all the world , That talk 'd of her , have talk 'd amiss of her : If she be curst , it is for policy , For she 's not froward , but modest as the dove ; She is not hot , but temperate as the morn ; For patience she will prove a second Grissel , And Roman Lucrece for her chastity : And to conclude , we have ' greed so well together , That upon Sunday is the wedding-day .
KATHARINA : I 'll see thee hang 'd on Sunday first .
GREMIO : Hark , Petruchio ; she says she 'll see thee hang 'd first .
TRANIO : Is this your speeding ? nay , then , good night our part !
PETRUCHIO : Be patient , gentlemen ; I choose her for myself : If she and I be pleased , what 's that to you ? ' Tis bargain 'd ' twixt us twain , being alone , That she shall still be curst in company . I tell you , ' tis incredible to believe How much she loves me : O , the kindest Kate ! She hung about my neck ; and kiss on kiss She vied so fast , protesting oath on oath , That in a twink she won me to her love . O , you are novices ! ' tis a world to see , How tame , when men and women are alone , A meacock wretch can make the curstest shrew . Give me thy hand , Kate : I will unto Venice , To buy apparel ' gainst the wedding-day . Provide the feast , father , and bid the guests ; I will be sure my Katharina shall be fine .
BAPTISTA : I know not what to say : but give me your hands ; God send you joy , Petruchio ! ' tis a match .
GREMIO TRANIO : Amen , say we : we will be witnesses .
PETRUCHIO : Father , and wife , and gentlemen , adieu ; I will to Venice ; Sunday comes apace : We will have rings and things and fine array ; And kiss me , Kate , we will be married o 'Sunday .
GREMIO : Was ever match clapp 'd up so suddenly ?
