PETRUCHIO : Where be these knaves ? What , no man at door To hold my stirrup nor to take my horse ! Where is Nathaniel , Gregory , Philip ? ALL SERVING-MEN Here , here , sir ; here , sir .
PETRUCHIO : Here , sir ! here , sir ! here , sir ! here , sir ! You logger-headed and unpolish 'd grooms ! What , no attendance ? no regard ? no duty ? Where is the foolish knave I sent before ?
GRUMIO : Here , sir ; as foolish as I was before .
PETRUCHIO : You peasant swain ! you whoreson malt-horse drudge ! Did I not bid thee meet me in the park , And bring along these rascal knaves with thee ?
GRUMIO : Nathaniel 's coat , sir , was not fully made , And Gabriel 's pumps were all unpink 'd i ' the heel ; There was no link to colour Peter 's hat , And Walter 's dagger was not come from sheathing : There were none fine but Adam , Ralph , and Gregory ; The rest were ragged , old , and beggarly ; Yet , as they are , here are they come to meet you .
PETRUCHIO : Go , rascals , go , and fetch my supper in . Singing Where is the life that late I led-- Where are those--Sit down , Kate , and welcome.-- Sound , sound , sound , sound ! Re-enter Servants with supper Why , when , I say ? Nay , good sweet Kate , be merry . Off with my boots , you rogues ! you villains , when ? Sings It was the friar of orders grey , As he forth walked on his way : -- Out , you rogue ! you pluck my foot awry : Take that , and mend the plucking off the other . Strikes him Be merry , Kate . Some water , here ; what , ho ! Where 's my spaniel Troilus ? Sirrah , get you hence , And bid my cousin Ferdinand come hither : One , Kate , that you must kiss , and be acquainted with . Where are my slippers ? Shall I have some water ? Enter one with water Come , Kate , and wash , and welcome heartily . You whoreson villain ! will you let it fall ? Strikes him
KATHARINA : Patience , I pray you ; ' twas a fault unwilling .
PETRUCHIO : A whoreson beetle-headed , flap-ear 'd knave ! Come , Kate , sit down ; I know you have a stomach . Will you give thanks , sweet Kate ; or else shall I ? What 's this ? mutton ?
First Servant : Ay .
PETRUCHIO : Who brought it ?
PETER : I.
PETRUCHIO : ' Tis burnt ; and so is all the meat . What dogs are these ! Where is the rascal cook ? How durst you , villains , bring it from the dresser , And serve it thus to me that love it not ? Theretake it to you , trenchers , cups , and all ; Throws the meat , & c. about the stage You heedless joltheads and unmanner 'd slaves ! What , do you grumble ? I 'll be with you straight .
KATHARINA : I pray you , husband , be not so disquiet : The meat was well , if you were so contented .
PETRUCHIO : I tell thee , Kate , ' twas burnt and dried away ; And I expressly am forbid to touch it , For it engenders choler , planteth anger ; And better ' twere that both of us did fast , Since , of ourselves , ourselves are choleric , Than feed it with such over-roasted flesh . Be patient ; to-morrow ' t shall be mended , And , for this night , we 'll fast for company : Come , I will bring thee to thy bridal chamber . Re-enter Servants severally
NATHANIEL : Peter , didst ever see the like ?
PETER : He kills her in her own humour . Re-enter CURTIS
GRUMIO : Where is he ?
