PETRUCHIO : O Kate , content thee ; prithee , be not angry .
KATHARINA : I will be angry : what hast thou to do ? Father , be quiet ; he shall stay my leisure .
GREMIO : Ay , marry , sir , now it begins to work .
KATARINA : Gentlemen , forward to the bridal dinner : I see a woman may be made a fool , If she had not a spirit to resist .
PETRUCHIO : They shall go forward , Kate , at thy command . Obey the bride , you that attend on her ; Go to the feast , revel and domineer , Carouse full measure to her maidenhead , Be mad and merry , or go hang yourselves : But for my bonny Kate , she must with me . Nay , look not big , nor stamp , nor stare , nor fret ; I will be master of what is mine own : She is my goods , my chattels ; she is my house , My household stuff , my field , my barn , My horse , my ox , my ass , my any thing ; And here she stands , touch her whoever dare ; I 'll bring mine action on the proudest he That stops my way in Padua . Grumio , Draw forth thy weapon , we are beset with thieves ; Rescue thy mistress , if thou be a man . Fear not , sweet wench , they shall not touch thee , Kate : I 'll buckler thee against a million .
BAPTISTA : Nay , let them go , a couple of quiet ones .
GREMIO : Went they not quickly , I should die with laughing .
TRANIO : Of all mad matches never was the like .
LUCENTIO : Mistress , what 's your opinion of your sister ?
BIANCA : That , being mad herself , she 's madly mated .
GREMIO : I warrant him , Petruchio is Kated .
BAPTISTA : Neighbours and friends , though bride and bridegroom wants For to supply the places at the table , You know there wants no junkets at the feast . Lucentio , you shall supply the bridegroom 's place : And let Bianca take her sister 's room .
TRANIO : Shall sweet Bianca practise how to bride it ?
BAPTISTA : She shall , Lucentio . Come , gentlemen , let 's go . Enter GRUMIO
GRUMIO : Fie , fie on all tired jades , on all mad masters , and all foul ways ! Was ever man so beaten ? was ever man so rayed ? was ever man so weary ? I am sent before to make a fire , and they are coming after to warm them . Now , were not I a little pot and soon hot , my very lips might freeze to my teeth , my tongue to the roof of my mouth , my heart in my belly , ere I should come by a fire to thaw me : but I , with blowing the fire , shall warm myself ; for , considering the weather , a taller man than I will take cold . Holla , ho ! Curtis . Enter CURTIS
CURTIS : Who is that calls so coldly ?
GRUMIO : A piece of ice : if thou doubt it , thou mayst slide from my shoulder to my heel with no greater a run but my head and my neck . A fire good Curtis .
CURTIS : Is my master and his wife coming , Grumio ?
GRUMIO : O , ay , Curtis , ay : and therefore fire , fire ; cast on no water .
CURTIS : Is she so hot a shrew as she 's reported ?
GRUMIO : She was , good Curtis , before this frost : but , thou knowest , winter tames man , woman and beast ; for it hath tamed my old master and my new mistress and myself , fellow Curtis .
CURTIS : Away , you three-inch fool ! I am no beast .
