GRUMIO : Knock you here , sir ! why , sir , what am I , sir , that I should knock you here , sir ?
PETRUCHIO : Villain , I say , knock me at this gate And rap me well , or I 'll knock your knave 's pate .
GRUMIO : My master is grown quarrelsome . I should knock you first , And then I know after who comes by the worst .
PETRUCHIO : Will it not be ? Faith , sirrah , an you 'll not knock , I 'll ring it ; I 'll try how you can sol , fa , and sing it . He wrings him by the ears
GRUMIO : Help , masters , help ! my master is mad .
PETRUCHIO : Now , knock when I bid you , sirrah villain ! Enter HORTENSIO
HORTENSIO : How now ! what 's the matter ? My old friend Grumio ! and my good friend Petruchio ! How do you all at Verona ?
PETRUCHIO : Signior Hortensio , come you to part the fray ? ' Con tutto il cuore , ben trovato , ' may I say .
HORTENSIO : ' Alla nostra casa ben venuto , molto honorato signor mio Petruchio . ' Rise , Grumio , rise : we will compound this quarrel .
GRUMIO : Nay , ' tis no matter , sir , what he ' leges in Latin. if this be not a lawful case for me to leave his service , look you , sir , he bid me knock him and rap him soundly , sir : well , was it fit for a servant to use his master so , being perhaps , for aught I see , two and thirty , a pip out ? Whom would to God I had well knock 'd at first , Then had not Grumio come by the worst .
PETRUCHIO : A senseless villain ! Good Hortensio , I bade the rascal knock upon your gate And could not get him for my heart to do it .
GRUMIO : Knock at the gate ! O heavens ! Spake you not these words plain , ' Sirrah , knock me here , rap me here , knock me well , and knock me soundly ' ? And come you now with , ' knocking at the gate ' ?
PETRUCHIO : Sirrah , be gone , or talk not , I advise you .
HORTENSIO : Petruchio , patience ; I am Grumio 's pledge : Why , this 's a heavy chance ' twixt him and you , Your ancient , trusty , pleasant servant Grumio . And tell me now , sweet friend , what happy gale Blows you to Padua here from old Verona ?
PETRUCHIO : Such wind as scatters young men through the world , To seek their fortunes farther than at home Where small experience grows . But in a few , Signior Hortensio , thus it stands with me : Antonio , my father , is deceased ; And I have thrust myself into this maze , Haply to wive and thrive as best I may : Crowns in my purse I have and goods at home , And so am come abroad to see the world .
HORTENSIO : Petruchio , shall I then come roundly to thee And wish thee to a shrewd ill-favour 'd wife ? Thou 'ldst thank me but a little for my counsel : And yet I 'll promise thee she shall be rich And very rich : but thou 'rt too much my friend , And I 'll not wish thee to her .
PETRUCHIO : Signior Hortensio , ' twixt such friends as we Few words suffice ; and therefore , if thou know One rich enough to be Petruchio 's wife , As wealth is burden of my wooing dance , Be she as foul as was Florentius ' love , As old as Sibyl and as curst and shrewd As Socrates ' Xanthippe , or a worse , She moves me not , or not removes , at least , Affection 's edge in me , were she as rough As are the swelling Adriatic seas : I come to wive it wealthily in Padua ; If wealthily , then happily in Padua .
