Servant : An 't please your honour , players That offer service to your lordship .
Lord : Bid them come near . Enter Players Now , fellows , you are welcome .
Players : We thank your honour .
Lord : Do you intend to stay with me tonight ?
A Player : So please your lordship to accept our duty .
Lord : With all my heart . This fellow I remember , Since once he play 'd a farmer 's eldest son : ' Twas where you woo 'd the gentlewoman so well : I have forgot your name ; but , sure , that part Was aptly fitted and naturally perform 'd .
A Player : I think ' twas Soto that your honour means .
Lord : ' Tis very true : thou didst it excellent . Well , you are come to me in a happy time ; The rather for I have some sport in hand Wherein your cunning can assist me much . There is a lord will hear you play to-night : But I am doubtful of your modesties ; Lest over-eyeing of his odd behavior , -- For yet his honour never heard a play-- You break into some merry passion And so offend him ; for I tell you , sirs , If you should smile he grows impatient .
A Player : Fear not , my lord : we can contain ourselves , Were he the veriest antic in the world .
Lord : Go , sirrah , take them to the buttery , And give them friendly welcome every one : Let them want nothing that my house affords . Exit one with the Players Sirrah , go you to Barthol 'mew my page , And see him dress 'd in all suits like a lady : That done , conduct him to the drunkard 's chamber ; And call him ' madam , ' do him obeisance . Tell him from me , as he will win my love , He bear himself with honourable action , Such as he hath observed in noble ladies Unto their lords , by them accomplished : Such duty to the drunkard let him do With soft low tongue and lowly courtesy , And say ' What is 't your honour will command , Wherein your lady and your humble wife May show her duty and make known her love ? ' And then with kind embracements , tempting kisses , And with declining head into his bosom , Bid him shed tears , as being overjoy 'd To see her noble lord restored to health , Who for this seven years hath esteem 'd him No better than a poor and loathsome beggar : And if the boy have not a woman 's gift To rain a shower of commanded tears , An onion will do well for such a shift , Which in a napkin being close convey 'd Shall in despite enforce a watery eye . See this dispatch 'd with all the haste thou canst : Anon I 'll give thee more instructions . Exit a Servingman I know the boy will well usurp the grace , Voice , gait and action of a gentlewoman : I long to hear him call the drunkard husband , And how my men will stay themselves from laughter When they do homage to this simple peasant . I 'll in to counsel them ; haply my presence May well abate the over-merry spleen Which otherwise would grow into extremes . Enter aloft SLY , with Attendants ; some with apparel , others with basin and ewer and appurtenances ; and Lord
SLY : For God 's sake , a pot of small ale .
First Servant : Will 't please your lordship drink a cup of sack ?
Second Servant : Will 't please your honour taste of these conserves ?
Third Servant : What raiment will your honour wear to-day ?
SLY : I am Christophero Sly ; call not me ' honour ' nor ' lordship : ' I ne 'er drank sack in my life ; and if you give me any conserves , give me conserves of beef : ne 'er ask me what raiment I 'll wear ; for I have no more doublets than backs , no more stockings than legs , nor no more shoes than feet ; nay , sometimes more feet than shoes , or such shoes as my toes look through the over-leather .
