HORTENSIO : Madam , before you touch the instrument , To learn the order of my fingering , I must begin with rudiments of art ; To teach you gamut in a briefer sort , More pleasant , pithy and effectual , Than hath been taught by any of my trade : And there it is in writing , fairly drawn .
BIANCA : Why , I am past my gamut long ago .
HORTENSIO : Yet read the gamut of Hortensio .
BIANCA : ' ' Gamut ' I am , the ground of all accord , ' A re , ' to Plead Hortensio 's passion ; ' B mi , ' Bianca , take him for thy lord , ' C fa ut , ' that loves with all affection : ' D sol re , ' one clef , two notes have I : ' E la mi , ' show pity , or I die . ' Call you this gamut ? tut , I like it not : Old fashions please me best ; I am not so nice , To change true rules for old inventions . Enter a Servant
Servant : Mistress , your father prays you leave your books And help to dress your sister 's chamber up : You know to-morrow is the wedding-day .
BIANCA : Farewell , sweet masters both ; I must be gone .
LUCENTIO : Faith , mistress , then I have no cause to stay . Exit
HORTENSIO : But I have cause to pry into this pedant : Methinks he looks as though he were in love : Yet if thy thoughts , Bianca , be so humble To cast thy wandering eyes on every stale , Seize thee that list : if once I find thee ranging , Hortensio will be quit with thee by changing . Exit Enter BAPTISTA , GREMIO , TRANIO , KATHARINA , BIANCA , LUCENTIO , and others , attendants
BAPTISTA : Signior Lucentio , this is the ' pointed day . That Katharina and Petruchio should be married , And yet we hear not of our son-in-law . What will be said ? what mockery will it be , To want the bridegroom when the priest attends To speak the ceremonial rites of marriage ! What says Lucentio to this shame of ours ?
KATHARINA : No shame but mine : I must , forsooth , be forced To give my hand opposed against my heart Unto a mad-brain rudesby full of spleen ; Who woo 'd in haste and means to wed at leisure . I told you , I , he was a frantic fool , Hiding his bitter jests in blunt behavior : And , to be noted for a merry man , He 'll woo a thousand , ' point the day of marriage , Make feasts , invite friends , and proclaim the banns ; Yet never means to wed where he hath woo 'd . Now must the world point at poor Katharina , And say , ' Lo , there is mad Petruchio 's wife , If it would please him come and marry her ! '
TRANIO : Patience , good Katharina , and Baptista too . Upon my life , Petruchio means but well , Whatever fortune stays him from his word : Though he be blunt , I know him passing wise ; Though he be merry , yet withal he 's honest .
KATHARINA : Would Katharina had never seen him though ! Exit weeping , followed by BIANCA and others
BAPTISTA : Go , girl ; I cannot blame thee now to weep ; For such an injury would vex a very saint , Much more a shrew of thy impatient humour . Enter BIONDELLO
BIONDELLO : Master , master ! news , old news , and such news as you never heard of !
BAPTISTA : Is it new and old too ? how may that be ?
BIONDELLO : Why , is it not news , to hear of Petruchio 's coming ?
BAPTISTA : Is he come ?
BIONDELLO : Why , no , sir .
BAPTISTA : What then ?
BIONDELLO : He is coming .
BAPTISTA : When will he be here ?
BIONDELLO : When he stands where I am and sees you there .
TRANIO : But say , what to thine old news ?
