SLY : I 'll pheeze you , in faith .
Hostess : A pair of stocks , you rogue !
SLY : Ye are a baggage : the Slys are no rogues ; look in the chronicles ; we came in with Richard Conqueror . Therefore paucas pallabris ; let the world slide : sessa !
Hostess : You will not pay for the glasses you have burst ?
SLY : No , not a denier . Go by , Jeronimy : go to thy cold bed , and warm thee .
Hostess : I know my remedy ; I must go fetch the third--borough . Exit
SLY : Third , or fourth , or fifth borough , I 'll answer him by law : I 'll not budge an inch , boy : let him come , and kindly . Falls asleep Horns winded . Enter a Lord from hunting , with his train
Lord : Huntsman , I charge thee , tender well my hounds : Brach Merriman , the poor cur is emboss 'd ; And couple Clowder with the deep--mouth 'd brach . Saw 'st thou not , boy , how Silver made it good At the hedge-corner , in the coldest fault ? I would not lose the dog for twenty pound .
First Huntsman : Why , Belman is as good as he , my lord ; He cried upon it at the merest loss And twice to-day pick 'd out the dullest scent : Trust me , I take him for the better dog .
Lord : Thou art a fool : if Echo were as fleet , I would esteem him worth a dozen such . But sup them well and look unto them all : To-morrow I intend to hunt again .
First Huntsman : I will , my lord .
Lord : What 's here ? one dead , or drunk ? See , doth he breathe ?
Second Huntsman : He breathes , my lord . Were he not warm 'd with ale , This were a bed but cold to sleep so soundly .
Lord : O monstrous beast ! how like a swine he lies ! Grim death , how foul and loathsome is thine image ! Sirs , I will practise on this drunken man . What think you , if he were convey 'd to bed , Wrapp 'd in sweet clothes , rings put upon his fingers , A most delicious banquet by his bed , And brave attendants near him when he wakes , Would not the beggar then forget himself ?
First Huntsman : Believe me , lord , I think he cannot choose .
Second Huntsman : It would seem strange unto him when he waked .
Lord : Even as a flattering dream or worthless fancy . Then take him up and manage well the jest : Carry him gently to my fairest chamber And hang it round with all my wanton pictures : Balm his foul head in warm distilled waters And burn sweet wood to make the lodging sweet : Procure me music ready when he wakes , To make a dulcet and a heavenly sound ; And if he chance to speak , be ready straight And with a low submissive reverence Say ' What is it your honour will command ? ' Let one attend him with a silver basin Full of rose-water and bestrew 'd with flowers , Another bear the ewer , the third a diaper , And say ' Will 't please your lordship cool your hands ? ' Some one be ready with a costly suit And ask him what apparel he will wear ; Another tell him of his hounds and horse , And that his lady mourns at his disease : Persuade him that he hath been lunatic ; And when he says he is , say that he dreams , For he is nothing but a mighty lord . This do and do it kindly , gentle sirs : It will be pastime passing excellent , If it be husbanded with modesty .
First Huntsman : My lord , I warrant you we will play our part , As he shall think by our true diligence He is no less than what we say he is .
