BAPTISTA : Why , how now , dame ! whence grows this insolence ? Bianca , stand aside . Poor girl ! she weeps . Go ply thy needle ; meddle not with her . For shame , thou helding of a devilish spirit , Why dost thou wrong her that did ne 'er wrong thee ? When did she cross thee with a bitter word ?
KATHARINA : Her silence flouts me , and I 'll be revenged . Flies after BIANCA
BAPTISTA : What , in my sight ? Bianca , get thee in . Exit BIANCA
KATHARINA : What , will you not suffer me ? Nay , now I see She is your treasure , she must have a husband ; I must dance bare-foot on her wedding day And for your love to her lead apes in hell . Talk not to me : I will go sit and weep Till I can find occasion of revenge . Exit
BAPTISTA : Was ever gentleman thus grieved as I ? But who comes here ? Enter GREMIO , LUCENTIO in the habit of a mean man ; PETRUCHIO , with HORTENSIO as a musician ; and TRANIO , with BIONDELLO bearing a lute and books
GREMIO : Good morrow , neighbour Baptista .
BAPTISTA : Good morrow , neighbour Gremio . God save you , gentlemen !
PETRUCHIO : And you , good sir ! Pray , have you not a daughter Call 'd Katharina , fair and virtuous ?
BAPTISTA : I have a daughter , sir , called Katharina .
GREMIO : You are too blunt : go to it orderly .
PETRUCHIO : You wrong me , Signior Gremio : give me leave . I am a gentleman of Verona , sir , That , hearing of her beauty and her wit , Her affability and bashful modesty , Her wondrous qualities and mild behavior , Am bold to show myself a forward guest Within your house , to make mine eye the witness Of that report which I so oft have heard . And , for an entrance to my entertainment , I do present you with a man of mine , Presenting HORTENSIO Cunning in music and the mathematics , To instruct her fully in those sciences , Whereof I know she is not ignorant : Accept of him , or else you do me wrong : His name is Licio , born in Mantua .
BAPTISTA : You 're welcome , sir ; and he , for your good sake . But for my daughter Katharina , this I know , She is not for your turn , the more my grief .
PETRUCHIO : I see you do not mean to part with her , Or else you like not of my company .
BAPTISTA : Mistake me not ; I speak but as I find . Whence are you , sir ? what may I call your name ?
PETRUCHIO : Petruchio is my name ; Antonio 's son , A man well known throughout all Italy .
BAPTISTA : I know him well : you are welcome for his sake .
GREMIO : Saving your tale , Petruchio , I pray , Let us , that are poor petitioners , speak too : Baccare ! you are marvellous forward .
PETRUCHIO : O , pardon me , Signior Gremio ; I would fain be doing .
GREMIO : I doubt it not , sir ; but you will curse your wooing . Neighbour , this is a gift very grateful , I am sure of it . To express the like kindness , myself , that have been more kindly beholding to you than any , freely give unto you this young scholar , Presenting LUCENTIO that hath been long studying at Rheims ; as cunning in Greek , Latin , and other languages , as the other in music and mathematics : his name is Cambio ; pray , accept his service .
BAPTISTA : A thousand thanks , Signior Gremio . Welcome , good Cambio . To TRANIO But , gentle sir , methinks you walk like a stranger : may I be so bold to know the cause of your coming ?
