KATHARINA : I 'll have no bigger : this doth fit the time , And gentlewomen wear such caps as these
PETRUCHIO : When you are gentle , you shall have one too , And not till then .
HORTENSIO : That will not be in haste .
KATHARINA : Why , sir , I trust I may have leave to speak ; And speak I will ; I am no child , no babe : Your betters have endured me say my mind , And if you cannot , best you stop your ears . My tongue will tell the anger of my heart , Or else my heart concealing it will break , And rather than it shall , I will be free Even to the uttermost , as I please , in words .
PETRUCHIO : Why , thou say 'st true ; it is a paltry cap , A custard-coffin , a bauble , a silken pie : I love thee well , in that thou likest it not .
KATHARINA : Love me or love me not , I like the cap ; And it I will have , or I will have none . Exit Haberdasher
PETRUCHIO : Thy gown ? why , ay : come , tailor , let us see 't . O mercy , God ! what masquing stuff is here ? What 's this ? a sleeve ? ' tis like a demi-cannon : What , up and down , carved like an apple-tart ? Here 's snip and nip and cut and slish and slash , Like to a censer in a barber 's shop : Why , what , i ' devil 's name , tailor , call 'st thou this ?
HORTENSIO : I see she 's like to have neither cap nor gown .
Tailor : You bid me make it orderly and well , According to the fashion and the time .
PETRUCHIO : Marry , and did ; but if you be remember 'd , I did not bid you mar it to the time . Go , hop me over every kennel home , For you shall hop without my custom , sir : I 'll none of it : hence ! make your best of it .
KATHARINA : I never saw a better-fashion 'd gown , More quaint , more pleasing , nor more commendable : Belike you mean to make a puppet of me .
PETRUCHIO : Why , true ; he means to make a puppet of thee .
Tailor : She says your worship means to make a puppet of her .
PETRUCHIO : O monstrous arrogance ! Thou liest , thou thread , thou thimble , Thou yard , three-quarters , half-yard , quarter , nail ! Thou flea , thou nit , thou winter-cricket thou ! Braved in mine own house with a skein of thread ? Away , thou rag , thou quantity , thou remnant ; Or I shall so be-mete thee with thy yard As thou shalt think on prating whilst thou livest ! I tell thee , I , that thou hast marr 'd her gown .
Tailor : Your worship is deceived ; the gown is made Just as my master had direction : Grumio gave order how it should be done .
GRUMIO : I gave him no order ; I gave him the stuff .
Tailor : But how did you desire it should be made ?
GRUMIO : Marry , sir , with needle and thread .
Tailor : But did you not request to have it cut ?
GRUMIO : Thou hast faced many things .
Tailor : I have .
GRUMIO : Face not me : thou hast braved many men ; brave not me ; I will neither be faced nor braved . I say unto thee , I bid thy master cut out the gown ; but I did not bid him cut it to pieces : ergo , thou liest .
Tailor : Why , here is the note of the fashion to testify
PETRUCHIO : Read it .
GRUMIO : The note lies in 's throat , if he say I said so .
Tailor : ' Imprimis , a loose-bodied gown : '
GRUMIO : Master , if ever I said loose-bodied gown , sew me in the skirts of it , and beat me to death with a bottom of brown thread : I said a gown .
PETRUCHIO : Proceed .
