BAPTISTA : Lucentio is your name ; of whence , I pray ?
TRANIO : Of Pisa , sir ; son to Vincentio .
BAPTISTA : A mighty man of Pisa ; by report I know him well : you are very welcome , sir , Take you the lute , and you the set of books ; You shall go see your pupils presently . Holla , within ! Enter a Servant Sirrah , lead these gentlemen To my daughters ; and tell them both , These are their tutors : bid them use them well . Exit Servant , with LUCENTIO and HORTENSIO , BIONDELLO following We will go walk a little in the orchard , And then to dinner . You are passing welcome , And so I pray you all to think yourselves .
PETRUCHIO : Signior Baptista , my business asketh haste , And every day I cannot come to woo . You knew my father well , and in him me , Left solely heir to all his lands and goods , Which I have better 'd rather than decreased : Then tell me , if I get your daughter 's love , What dowry shall I have with her to wife ?
BAPTISTA : After my death the one half of my lands , And in possession twenty thousand crowns .
PETRUCHIO : And , for that dowry , I 'll assure her of Her widowhood , be it that she survive me , In all my lands and leases whatsoever : Let specialties be therefore drawn between us , That covenants may be kept on either hand .
BAPTISTA : Ay , when the special thing is well obtain 'd , That is , her love ; for that is all in all .
PETRUCHIO : Why , that is nothing : for I tell you , father , I am as peremptory as she proud-minded ; And where two raging fires meet together They do consume the thing that feeds their fury : Though little fire grows great with little wind , Yet extreme gusts will blow out fire and all : So I to her and so she yields to me ; For I am rough and woo not like a babe .
BAPTISTA : Well mayst thou woo , and happy be thy speed ! But be thou arm 'd for some unhappy words .
PETRUCHIO : Ay , to the proof ; as mountains are for winds , That shake not , though they blow perpetually . Re-enter HORTENSIO , with his head broke
BAPTISTA : How now , my friend ! why dost thou look so pale ?
HORTENSIO : For fear , I promise you , if I look pale .
BAPTISTA : What , will my daughter prove a good musician ?
HORTENSIO : I think she 'll sooner prove a soldier Iron may hold with her , but never lutes .
BAPTISTA : Why , then thou canst not break her to the lute ?
HORTENSIO : Why , no ; for she hath broke the lute to me . I did but tell her she mistook her frets , And bow 'd her hand to teach her fingering ; When , with a most impatient devilish spirit , ' Frets , call you these ? ' quoth she ; ' I 'll fume with them : ' And , with that word , she struck me on the head , And through the instrument my pate made way ; And there I stood amazed for a while , As on a pillory , looking through the lute ; While she did call me rascal fiddler And twangling Jack ; with twenty such vile terms , As had she studied to misuse me so .
PETRUCHIO : Now , by the world , it is a lusty wench ; I love her ten times more than e 'er I did : O , how I long to have some chat with her !
BAPTISTA : Well , go with me and be not so discomfited : Proceed in practise with my younger daughter ; She 's apt to learn and thankful for good turns . Signior Petruchio , will you go with us , Or shall I send my daughter Kate to you ?
