BIONDELLO : I told him that your father was at Venice , And that you look 'd for him this day in Padua .
TRANIO : Thou 'rt a tall fellow : hold thee that to drink . Here comes Baptista : set your countenance , sir . Enter BAPTISTA and LUCENTIO Signior Baptista , you are happily met . To the Pedant Sir , this is the gentleman I told you of : I pray you stand good father to me now , Give me Bianca for my patrimony .
Pedant : Soft son ! Sir , by your leave : having come to Padua To gather in some debts , my son Lucentio Made me acquainted with a weighty cause Of love between your daughter and himself : And , for the good report I hear of you And for the love he beareth to your daughter And she to him , to stay him not too long , I am content , in a good father 's care , To have him match 'd ; and if you please to like No worse than I , upon some agreement Me shall you find ready and willing With one consent to have her so bestow 'd ; For curious I cannot be with you , Signior Baptista , of whom I hear so well .
BAPTISTA : Sir , pardon me in what I have to say : Your plainness and your shortness please me well . Right true it is , your son Lucentio here Doth love my daughter and she loveth him , Or both dissemble deeply their affections : And therefore , if you say no more than this , That like a father you will deal with him And pass my daughter a sufficient dower , The match is made , and all is done : Your son shall have my daughter with consent .
TRANIO : I thank you , sir . Where then do you know best We be affied and such assurance ta 'en As shall with either part 's agreement stand ?
BAPTISTA : Not in my house , Lucentio ; for , you know , Pitchers have ears , and I have many servants : Besides , old Gremio is hearkening still ; And happily we might be interrupted .
TRANIO : Then at my lodging , an it like you : There doth my father lie ; and there , this night , We 'll pass the business privately and well . Send for your daughter by your servant here : My boy shall fetch the scrivener presently . The worst is this , that , at so slender warning , You are like to have a thin and slender pittance .
BAPTISTA : It likes me well . Biondello , hie you home , And bid Bianca make her ready straight ; And , if you will , tell what hath happened , Lucentio 's father is arrived in Padua , And how she 's like to be Lucentio 's wife .
BIONDELLO : I pray the gods she may with all my heart !
TRANIO : Dally not with the gods , but get thee gone . Exit BIONDELLO Signior Baptista , shall I lead the way ? Welcome ! one mess is like to be your cheer : Come , sir ; we will better it in Pisa .
BAPTISTA : I follow you . Re-enter BIONDELLO
BIONDELLO : Cambio !
LUCENTIO : What sayest thou , Biondello ?
BIONDELLO : You saw my master wink and laugh upon you ?
LUCENTIO : Biondello , what of that ?
BIONDELLO : Faith , nothing ; but has left me here behind , to expound the meaning or moral of his signs and tokens .
LUCENTIO : I pray thee , moralize them .
BIONDELLO : Then thus . Baptista is safe , talking with the deceiving father of a deceitful son .
LUCENTIO : And what of him ?
BIONDELLO : His daughter is to be brought by you to the supper .
LUCENTIO : And then ?
BIONDELLO : The old priest of Saint Luke 's church is at your command at all hours .
LUCENTIO : And what of all this ?
