PETRUCHIO : Thus have I politicly begun my reign , And ' tis my hope to end successfully . My falcon now is sharp and passing empty ; And till she stoop she must not be full-gorged , For then she never looks upon her lure . Another way I have to man my haggard , To make her come and know her keeper 's call , That is , to watch her , as we watch these kites That bate and beat and will not be obedient . She eat no meat to-day , nor none shall eat ; Last night she slept not , nor to-night she shall not ; As with the meat , some undeserved fault I 'll find about the making of the bed ; And here I 'll fling the pillow , there the bolster , This way the coverlet , another way the sheets : Ay , and amid this hurly I intend That all is done in reverend care of her ; And in conclusion she shall watch all night : And if she chance to nod I 'll rail and brawl And with the clamour keep her still awake . This is a way to kill a wife with kindness ; And thus I 'll curb her mad and headstrong humour . He that knows better how to tame a shrew , Now let him speak : ' tis charity to show . Exit Enter TRANIO and HORTENSIO
TRANIO : Is 't possible , friend Licio , that Mistress Bianca Doth fancy any other but Lucentio ? I tell you , sir , she bears me fair in hand .
HORTENSIO : Sir , to satisfy you in what I have said , Stand by and mark the manner of his teaching . Enter BIANCA and LUCENTIO
LUCENTIO : Now , mistress , profit you in what you read ?
BIANCA : What , master , read you ? first resolve me that .
LUCENTIO : I read that I profess , the Art to Love .
BIANCA : And may you prove , sir , master of your art !
LUCENTIO : While you , sweet dear , prove mistress of my heart !
HORTENSIO : Quick proceeders , marry ! Now , tell me , I pray , You that durst swear at your mistress Bianca Loved none in the world so well as Lucentio .
TRANIO : O despiteful love ! unconstant womankind ! I tell thee , Licio , this is wonderful .
HORTENSIO : Mistake no more : I am not Licio , Nor a musician , as I seem to be ; But one that scorn to live in this disguise , For such a one as leaves a gentleman , And makes a god of such a cullion : Know , sir , that I am call 'd Hortensio .
TRANIO : Signior Hortensio , I have often heard Of your entire affection to Bianca ; And since mine eyes are witness of her lightness , I will with you , if you be so contented , Forswear Bianca and her love for ever .
HORTENSIO : See , how they kiss and court ! Signior Lucentio , Here is my hand , and here I firmly vow Never to woo her no more , but do forswear her , As one unworthy all the former favours That I have fondly flatter 'd her withal .
TRANIO : And here I take the unfeigned oath , Never to marry with her though she would entreat : Fie on her ! see , how beastly she doth court him !
HORTENSIO : Would all the world but he had quite forsworn ! For me , that I may surely keep mine oath , I will be married to a wealthy widow , Ere three days pass , which hath as long loved me As I have loved this proud disdainful haggard . And so farewell , Signior Lucentio . Kindness in women , not their beauteous looks , Shall win my love : and so I take my leave , In resolution as I swore before . Exit
TRANIO : Mistress Bianca , bless you with such grace As ' longeth to a lover 's blessed case ! Nay , I have ta 'en you napping , gentle love , And have forsworn you with Hortensio .
BIANCA : Tranio , you jest : but have you both forsworn me ?
TRANIO : Mistress , we have .
