TRANIO : I ' faith , he 'll have a lusty widow now , That shall be wood and wedded in a day .
BIANCA : God give him joy !
TRANIO : Ay , and he 'll tame her .
BIANCA : He says so , Tranio .
TRANIO : Faith , he is gone unto the taming-school .
BIANCA : The taming-school ! what , is there such a place ?
TRANIO : Ay , mistress , and Petruchio is the master ; That teacheth tricks eleven and twenty long , To tame a shrew and charm her chattering tongue . Enter BIONDELLO
BIONDELLO : O master , master , I have watch 'd so long That I am dog-weary : but at last I spied An ancient angel coming down the hill , Will serve the turn .
TRANIO : What is he , Biondello ?
BIONDELLO : Master , a mercatante , or a pedant , I know not what ; but format in apparel , In gait and countenance surely like a father .
LUCENTIO : And what of him , Tranio ?
TRANIO : If he be credulous and trust my tale , I 'll make him glad to seem Vincentio , And give assurance to Baptista Minola , As if he were the right Vincentio Take in your love , and then let me alone . Enter a Pedant
Pedant : God save you , sir !
TRANIO : And you , sir ! you are welcome . Travel you far on , or are you at the farthest ?
Pedant : Sir , at the farthest for a week or two : But then up farther , and as for as Rome ; And so to Tripoli , if God lend me life .
TRANIO : What countryman , I pray ?
Pedant : Of Mantua .
TRANIO : Of Mantua , sir ? marry , God forbid ! And come to Padua , careless of your life ?
Pedant : My life , sir ! how , I pray ? for that goes hard .
TRANIO : ' Tis death for any one in Mantua To come to Padua . Know you not the cause ? Your ships are stay 'd at Venice , and the duke , For private quarrel ' twixt your duke and him , Hath publish 'd and proclaim 'd it openly : ' Tis , marvel , but that you are but newly come , You might have heard it else proclaim 'd about .
Pedant : Alas ! sir , it is worse for me than so ; For I have bills for money by exchange From Florence and must here deliver them .
TRANIO : Well , sir , to do you courtesy , This will I do , and this I will advise you : First , tell me , have you ever been at Pisa ?
Pedant : Ay , sir , in Pisa have I often been , Pisa renowned for grave citizens .
TRANIO : Among them know you one Vincentio ?
Pedant : I know him not , but I have heard of him ; A merchant of incomparable wealth .
TRANIO : He is my father , sir ; and , sooth to say , In countenance somewhat doth resemble you .
BIONDELLO : As much as an apple doth an oyster , and all one .
TRANIO : To save your life in this extremity , This favour will I do you for his sake ; And think it not the worst of an your fortunes That you are like to Sir Vincentio . His name and credit shall you undertake , And in my house you shall be friendly lodged : Look that you take upon you as you should ; You understand me , sir : so shall you stay Till you have done your business in the city : If this be courtesy , sir , accept of it .
Pedant : O sir , I do ; and will repute you ever The patron of my life and liberty .
