TRANIO : That by degrees we mean to look into , And watch our vantage in this business : We 'll over-reach the greybeard , Gremio , The narrow-prying father , Minola , The quaint musician , amorous Licio ; All for my master 's sake , Lucentio . Re-enter GREMIO Signior Gremio , came you from the church ?
GREMIO : As willingly as e 'er I came from school .
TRANIO : And is the bride and bridegroom coming home ?
GREMIO : A bridegroom say you ? ' tis a groom indeed , A grumbling groom , and that the girl shall find .
TRANIO : Curster than she ? why , ' tis impossible .
GREMIO : Why he 's a devil , a devil , a very fiend .
TRANIO : Why , she 's a devil , a devil , the devil 's dam .
GREMIO : Tut , she 's a lamb , a dove , a fool to him ! I 'll tell you , Sir Lucentio : when the priest Should ask , if Katharina should be his wife , ' Ay , by gogs-wouns , ' quoth he ; and swore so loud , That , all-amazed , the priest let fall the book ; And , as he stoop 'd again to take it up , The mad-brain 'd bridegroom took him such a cuff That down fell priest and book and book and priest : ' Now take them up , ' quoth he , ' if any list . ' 
TRANIO : What said the wench when he rose again ?
GREMIO : Trembled and shook ; for why , he stamp 'd and swore , As if the vicar meant to cozen him . But after many ceremonies done , He calls for wine : ' A health ! ' quoth he , as if He had been aboard , carousing to his mates After a storm ; quaff 'd off the muscadel And threw the sops all in the sexton 's face ; Having no other reason But that his beard grew thin and hungerly And seem 'd to ask him sops as he was drinking . This done , he took the bride about the neck And kiss 'd her lips with such a clamorous smack That at the parting all the church did echo : And I seeing this came thence for very shame ; And after me , I know , the rout is coming . Such a mad marriage never was before : Hark , hark ! I hear the minstrels play . Music Re-enter PETRUCHIO , KATHARINA , BIANCA , BAPTISTA , HORTENSIO , GRUMIO , and Train
PETRUCHIO : Gentlemen and friends , I thank you for your pains : I know you think to dine with me to-day , And have prepared great store of wedding cheer ; But so it is , my haste doth call me hence , And therefore here I mean to take my leave .
BAPTISTA : Is 't possible you will away to-night ?
PETRUCHIO : I must away to-day , before night come : Make it no wonder ; if you knew my business , You would entreat me rather go than stay . And , honest company , I thank you all , That have beheld me give away myself To this most patient , sweet and virtuous wife : Dine with my father , drink a health to me ; For I must hence ; and farewell to you all .
TRANIO : Let us entreat you stay till after dinner .
PETRUCHIO : It may not be .
GREMIO : Let me entreat you .
PETRUCHIO : It cannot be .
KATHARINA : Let me entreat you .
PETRUCHIO : I am content .
KATHARINA : Are you content to stay ?
PETRUCHIO : I am content you shall entreat me stay ; But yet not stay , entreat me how you can .
KATHARINA : Now , if you love me , stay .
PETRUCHIO : Grumio , my horse .
GRUMIO : Ay , sir , they be ready : the oats have eaten the horses .
