GREMIO : What 's that , I pray ?
HORTENSIO : Marry , sir , to get a husband for her sister .
GREMIO : A husband ! a devil .
HORTENSIO : I say , a husband .
GREMIO : I say , a devil . Thinkest thou , Hortensio , though her father be very rich , any man is so very a fool to be married to hell ?
HORTENSIO : Tush , Gremio , though it pass your patience and mine to endure her loud alarums , why , man , there be good fellows in the world , an a man could light on them , would take her with all faults , and money enough .
GREMIO : I cannot tell ; but I had as lief take her dowry with this condition , to be whipped at the high cross every morning .
HORTENSIO : Faith , as you say , there 's small choice in rotten apples . But come ; since this bar in law makes us friends , it shall be so far forth friendly maintained all by helping Baptista 's eldest daughter to a husband we set his youngest free for a husband , and then have to 't a fresh . Sweet Bianca ! Happy man be his dole ! He that runs fastest gets the ring . How say you , Signior Gremio ?
GREMIO : I am agreed ; and would I had given him the best horse in Padua to begin his wooing that would thoroughly woo her , wed her and bed her and rid the house of her ! Come on .
TRANIO : I pray , sir , tell me , is it possible That love should of a sudden take such hold ?
LUCENTIO : O Tranio , till I found it to be true , I never thought it possible or likely ; But see , while idly I stood looking on , I found the effect of love in idleness : And now in plainness do confess to thee , That art to me as secret and as dear As Anna to the queen of Carthage was , Tranio , I burn , I pine , I perish , Tranio , If I achieve not this young modest girl . Counsel me , Tranio , for I know thou canst ; Assist me , Tranio , for I know thou wilt .
TRANIO : Master , it is no time to chide you now ; Affection is not rated from the heart : If love have touch 'd you , nought remains but so , ' Redime te captum quam queas minimo . ' 
LUCENTIO : Gramercies , lad , go forward ; this contents : The rest will comfort , for thy counsel 's sound .
TRANIO : Master , you look 'd so longly on the maid , Perhaps you mark 'd not what 's the pith of all .
LUCENTIO : O yes , I saw sweet beauty in her face , Such as the daughter of Agenor had , That made great Jove to humble him to her hand . When with his knees he kiss 'd the Cretan strand .
TRANIO : Saw you no more ? mark 'd you not how her sister Began to scold and raise up such a storm That mortal ears might hardly endure the din ?
LUCENTIO : Tranio , I saw her coral lips to move And with her breath she did perfume the air : Sacred and sweet was all I saw in her .
TRANIO : Nay , then , ' tis time to stir him from his trance . I pray , awake , sir : if you love the maid , Bend thoughts and wits to achieve her . Thus it stands : Her eldest sister is so curst and shrewd That till the father rid his hands of her , Master , your love must live a maid at home ; And therefore has he closely mew 'd her up , Because she will not be annoy 'd with suitors .
LUCENTIO : Ah , Tranio , what a cruel father 's he ! But art thou not advised , he took some care To get her cunning schoolmasters to instruct her ?
TRANIO : Ay , marry , am I , sir ; and now ' tis plotted .
LUCENTIO : I have it , Tranio .
