GLOUCESTER : Now is the winter of our discontent Made glorious summer by this sun of York ; And all the clouds that lour 'd upon our house In the deep bosom of the ocean buried . Now are our brows bound with victorious wreaths ; Our bruised arms hung up for monuments ; Our stern alarums changed to merry meetings , Our dreadful marches to delightful measures . Grim-visaged war hath smooth 'd his wrinkled front ; And now , instead of mounting barded steeds To fright the souls of fearful adversaries , He capers nimbly in a lady 's chamber To the lascivious pleasing of a lute . But I , that am not shaped for sportive tricks , Nor made to court an amorous looking-glass ; I , that am rudely stamp 'd , and want love 's majesty To strut before a wanton ambling nymph ; I , that am curtail 'd of this fair proportion , Cheated of feature by dissembling nature , Deformed , unfinish 'd , sent before my time Into this breathing world , scarce half made up , And that so lamely and unfashionable That dogs bark at me as I halt by them ; Why , I , in this weak piping time of peace , Have no delight to pass away the time , Unless to spy my shadow in the sun And descant on mine own deformity : And therefore , since I cannot prove a lover , To entertain these fair well-spoken days , I am determined to prove a villain And hate the idle pleasures of these days . Plots have I laid , inductions dangerous , By drunken prophecies , libels and dreams , To set my brother Clarence and the king In deadly hate the one against the other : And if King Edward be as true and just As I am subtle , false and treacherous , This day should Clarence closely be mew 'd up , About a prophecy , which says that ' G ' Of Edward 's heirs the murderer shall be . Dive , thoughts , down to my soul : here Clarence comes . Enter CLARENCE , guarded , and BRAKENBURY Brother , good day ; what means this armed guard That waits upon your grace ?
CLARENCE : His majesty Tendering my person 's safety , hath appointed This conduct to convey me to the Tower .
GLOUCESTER : Upon what cause ?
CLARENCE : Because my name is George .
GLOUCESTER : Alack , my lord , that fault is none of yours ; He should , for that , commit your godfathers : O , belike his majesty hath some intent That you shall be new-christen 'd in the Tower . But what 's the matter , Clarence ? may I know ?
CLARENCE : Yea , Richard , when I know ; for I protest As yet I do not : but , as I can learn , He hearkens after prophecies and dreams ; And from the cross-row plucks the letter G. And says a wizard told him that by G His issue disinherited should be ; And , for my name of George begins with G , It follows in his thought that I am he . These , as I learn , and such like toys as these Have moved his highness to commit me now .
GLOUCESTER : Why , this it is , when men are ruled by women : ' Tis not the king that sends you to the Tower : My Lady Grey his wife , Clarence , ' tis she That tempers him to this extremity . Was it not she and that good man of worship , Anthony Woodville , her brother there , That made him send Lord Hastings to the Tower , From whence this present day he is deliver 'd ? We are not safe , Clarence ; we are not safe .
CLARENCE : By heaven , I think there 's no man is secure But the queen 's kindred and night-walking heralds That trudge betwixt the king and Mistress Shore . Heard ye not what an humble suppliant Lord hastings was to her for his delivery ?
