RIVERS : By heaven , my heart is purged from grudging hate : And with my hand I seal my true heart 's love .
HASTINGS : So thrive I , as I truly swear the like !
KING EDWARD IV : Take heed you dally not before your king ; Lest he that is the supreme King of kings Confound your hidden falsehood , and award Either of you to be the other 's end .
HASTINGS : So prosper I , as I swear perfect love !
RIVERS : And I , as I love Hastings with my heart !
KING EDWARD IV : Madam , yourself are not exempt in this , Nor your son Dorset , Buckingham , nor you ; You have been factious one against the other , Wife , love Lord Hastings , let him kiss your hand ; And what you do , do it unfeignedly .
QUEEN ELIZABETH : Here , Hastings ; I will never more remember Our former hatred , so thrive I and mine !
KING EDWARD IV : Dorset , embrace him ; Hastings , love lord marquess .
DORSET : This interchange of love , I here protest , Upon my part shall be unviolable .
HASTINGS : And so swear I , my lord They embrace
KING EDWARD IV : Now , princely Buckingham , seal thou this league With thy embracements to my wife 's allies , And make me happy in your unity .
BUCKINGHAM : Whenever Buckingham doth turn his hate On you or yours , To the Queen but with all duteous love Doth cherish you and yours , God punish me With hate in those where I expect most love ! When I have most need to employ a friend , And most assured that he is a friend Deep , hollow , treacherous , and full of guile , Be he unto me ! this do I beg of God , When I am cold in zeal to yours .
KING EDWARD IV : A pleasing cordial , princely Buckingham , is this thy vow unto my sickly heart . There wanteth now our brother Gloucester here , To make the perfect period of this peace .
BUCKINGHAM : And , in good time , here comes the noble duke . Enter GLOUCESTER
GLOUCESTER : Good morrow to my sovereign king and queen : And , princely peers , a happy time of day !
KING EDWARD IV : Happy , indeed , as we have spent the day . Brother , we done deeds of charity ; Made peace enmity , fair love of hate , Between these swelling wrong-incensed peers .
GLOUCESTER : A blessed labour , my most sovereign liege : Amongst this princely heap , if any here , By false intelligence , or wrong surmise , Hold me a foe ; If I unwittingly , or in my rage , Have aught committed that is hardly borne By any in this presence , I desire To reconcile me to his friendly peace : ' Tis death to me to be at enmity ; I hate it , and desire all good men 's love . First , madam , I entreat true peace of you , Which I will purchase with my duteous service ; Of you , my noble cousin Buckingham , If ever any grudge were lodged between us ; Of you , Lord Rivers , and , Lord Grey , of you ; That without desert have frown 'd on me ; Dukes , earls , lords , gentlemen ; indeed , of all . I do not know that Englishman alive With whom my soul is any jot at odds More than the infant that is born to-night I thank my God for my humility .
QUEEN ELIZABETH : A holy day shall this be kept hereafter : I would to God all strifes were well compounded . My sovereign liege , I do beseech your majesty To take our brother Clarence to your grace .
GLOUCESTER : Why , madam , have I offer 'd love for this To be so bouted in this royal presence ? Who knows not that the noble duke is dead ? They all start You do him injury to scorn his corse .
RIVERS : Who knows not he is dead ! who knows he is ?
QUEEN ELIZABETH : All seeing heaven , what a world is this !
