GLOUCESTER : Ah ! and did they so ?
BUCKINGHAM : No , so God help me , they spake not a word ; But , like dumb statues or breathing stones , Gazed each on other , and look 'd deadly pale . Which when I saw , I reprehended them ; And ask 'd the mayor what meant this wilful silence : His answer was , the people were not wont To be spoke to but by the recorder . Then he was urged to tell my tale again , ' Thus saith the duke , thus hath the duke inferr 'd ; ' But nothing spake in warrant from himself . When he had done , some followers of mine own , At the lower end of the hall , hurl 'd up their caps , And some ten voices cried ' God save King Richard ! ' And thus I took the vantage of those few , ' Thanks , gentle citizens and friends , ' quoth I ; ' This general applause and loving shout Argues your wisdoms and your love to Richard : ' And even here brake off , and came away .
GLOUCESTER : What tongueless blocks were they ! would not they speak ?
BUCKINGHAM : No , by my troth , my lord .
GLOUCESTER : Will not the mayor then and his brethren come ?
BUCKINGHAM : The mayor is here at hand : intend some fear ; Be not you spoke with , but by mighty suit : And look you get a prayer-book in your hand , And stand betwixt two churchmen , good my lord ; For on that ground I 'll build a holy descant : And be not easily won to our request : Play the maid 's part , still answer nay , and take it .
GLOUCESTER : I go ; and if you plead as well for them As I can say nay to thee for myself , No doubt well bring it to a happy issue .
BUCKINGHAM : Go , go , up to the leads ; the lord mayor knocks . Exit GLOUCESTER Enter the Lord Mayor and Citizens Welcome my lord ; I dance attendance here ; I think the duke will not be spoke withal . Enter CATESBY Here comes his servant : how now , Catesby , What says he ?
CATESBY : My lord : he doth entreat your grace ; To visit him to-morrow or next day : He is within , with two right reverend fathers , Divinely bent to meditation ; And no worldly suit would he be moved , To draw him from his holy exercise .
BUCKINGHAM : Return , good Catesby , to thy lord again ; Tell him , myself , the mayor and citizens , In deep designs and matters of great moment , No less importing than our general good , Are come to have some conference with his grace .
CATESBY : I 'll tell him what you say , my lord . Exit
BUCKINGHAM : Ah , ha , my lord , this prince is not an Edward ! He is not lolling on a lewd day-bed , But on his knees at meditation ; Not dallying with a brace of courtezans , But meditating with two deep divines ; Not sleeping , to engross his idle body , But praying , to enrich his watchful soul : Happy were England , would this gracious prince Take on himself the sovereignty thereof : But , sure , I fear , we shall ne 'er win him to it .
Lord Mayor : Marry , God forbid his grace should say us nay !
BUCKINGHAM : I fear he will . Re-enter CATESBY How now , Catesby , what says your lord ?
CATESBY : My lord , He wonders to what end you have assembled Such troops of citizens to speak with him , His grace not being warn 'd thereof before : My lord , he fears you mean no good to him .
