QUEEN ELIZABETH : So just is God , to right the innocent .
HASTINGS : O , ' twas the foulest deed to slay that babe , And the most merciless that e 'er was heard of !
RIVERS : Tyrants themselves wept when it was reported .
DORSET : No man but prophesied revenge for it .
BUCKINGHAM : Northumberland , then present , wept to see it .
QUEEN MARGARET : What were you snarling all before I came , Ready to catch each other by the throat , And turn you all your hatred now on me ? Did York 's dread curse prevail so much with heaven ? That Henry 's death , my lovely Edward 's death , Their kingdom 's loss , my woful banishment , Could all but answer for that peevish brat ? Can curses pierce the clouds and enter heaven ? Why , then , give way , dull clouds , to my quick curses ! If not by war , by surfeit die your king , As ours by murder , to make him a king ! Edward thy son , which now is Prince of Wales , For Edward my son , which was Prince of Wales , Die in his youth by like untimely violence ! Thyself a queen , for me that was a queen , Outlive thy glory , like my wretched self ! Long mayst thou live to wail thy children 's loss ; And see another , as I see thee now , Deck 'd in thy rights , as thou art stall 'd in mine ! Long die thy happy days before thy death ; And , after many lengthen 'd hours of grief , Die neither mother , wife , nor England 's queen ! Rivers and Dorset , you were standers by , And so wast thou , Lord Hastings , when my son Was stabb 'd with bloody daggers : God , I pray him , That none of you may live your natural age , But by some unlook 'd accident cut off !
GLOUCESTER : Have done thy charm , thou hateful wither 'd hag !
QUEEN MARGARET : And leave out thee ? stay , dog , for thou shalt hear me . If heaven have any grievous plague in store Exceeding those that I can wish upon thee , O , let them keep it till thy sins be ripe , And then hurl down their indignation On thee , the troubler of the poor world 's peace ! The worm of conscience still begnaw thy soul ! Thy friends suspect for traitors while thou livest , And take deep traitors for thy dearest friends ! No sleep close up that deadly eye of thine , Unless it be whilst some tormenting dream Affrights thee with a hell of ugly devils ! Thou elvish-mark 'd , abortive , rooting hog ! Thou that wast seal 'd in thy nativity The slave of nature and the son of hell ! Thou slander of thy mother 's heavy womb ! Thou loathed issue of thy father 's loins ! Thou rag of honour ! thou detested--
GLOUCESTER : Margaret .
QUEEN MARGARET : Richard !
GLOUCESTER : Ha !
QUEEN MARGARET : I call thee not .
GLOUCESTER : I cry thee mercy then , for I had thought That thou hadst call 'd me all these bitter names .
QUEEN MARGARET : Why , so I did ; but look 'd for no reply . O , let me make the period to my curse !
GLOUCESTER : ' Tis done by me , and ends in ' Margaret . ' 
QUEEN ELIZABETH : Thus have you breathed your curse against yourself .
QUEEN MARGARET : Poor painted queen , vain flourish of my fortune ! Why strew 'st thou sugar on that bottled spider , Whose deadly web ensnareth thee about ? Fool , fool ! thou whet 'st a knife to kill thyself . The time will come when thou shalt wish for me To help thee curse that poisonous bunchback 'd toad .
HASTINGS : False-boding woman , end thy frantic curse , Lest to thy harm thou move our patience .
QUEEN MARGARET : Foul shame upon you ! you have all moved mine .
RIVERS : Were you well served , you would be taught your duty .
