LADY ANNE : Set down , set down your honourable load , If honour may be shrouded in a hearse , Whilst I awhile obsequiously lament The untimely fall of virtuous Lancaster . Poor key-cold figure of a holy king ! Pale ashes of the house of Lancaster ! Thou bloodless remnant of that royal blood ! Be it lawful that I invocate thy ghost , To hear the lamentations of Poor Anne , Wife to thy Edward , to thy slaughter 'd son , Stabb 'd by the selfsame hand that made these wounds ! Lo , in these windows that let forth thy life , I pour the helpless balm of my poor eyes . Cursed be the hand that made these fatal holes ! Cursed be the heart that had the heart to do it ! Cursed the blood that let this blood from hence ! More direful hap betide that hated wretch , That makes us wretched by the death of thee , Than I can wish to adders , spiders , toads , Or any creeping venom 'd thing that lives ! If ever he have child , abortive be it , Prodigious , and untimely brought to light , Whose ugly and unnatural aspect May fright the hopeful mother at the view ; And that be heir to his unhappiness ! If ever he have wife , let her he made A miserable by the death of him As I am made by my poor lord and thee ! Come , now towards Chertsey with your holy load , Taken from Paul 's to be interred there ; And still , as you are weary of the weight , Rest you , whiles I lament King Henry 's corse . Enter GLOUCESTER
GLOUCESTER : Stay , you that bear the corse , and set it down .
LADY ANNE : What black magician conjures up this fiend , To stop devoted charitable deeds ?
GLOUCESTER : Villains , set down the corse ; or , by Saint Paul , I 'll make a corse of him that disobeys .
Gentleman : My lord , stand back , and let the coffin pass .
GLOUCESTER : Unmanner 'd dog ! stand thou , when I command : Advance thy halbert higher than my breast , Or , by Saint Paul , I 'll strike thee to my foot , And spurn upon thee , beggar , for thy boldness .
LADY ANNE : What , do you tremble ? are you all afraid ? Alas , I blame you not ; for you are mortal , And mortal eyes cannot endure the devil . Avaunt , thou dreadful minister of hell ! Thou hadst but power over his mortal body , His soul thou canst not have ; therefore be gone .
GLOUCESTER : Sweet saint , for charity , be not so curst .
LADY ANNE : Foul devil , for God 's sake , hence , and trouble us not ; For thou hast made the happy earth thy hell , Fill 'd it with cursing cries and deep exclaims . If thou delight to view thy heinous deeds , Behold this pattern of thy butcheries . O , gentlemen , see , see ! dead Henry 's wounds Open their congeal 'd mouths and bleed afresh ! Blush , Blush , thou lump of foul deformity ; For ' tis thy presence that exhales this blood From cold and empty veins , where no blood dwells ; Thy deed , inhuman and unnatural , Provokes this deluge most unnatural . O God , which this blood madest , revenge his death ! O earth , which this blood drink 'st revenge his death ! Either heaven with lightning strike the murderer dead , Or earth , gape open wide and eat him quick , As thou dost swallow up this good king 's blood Which his hell-govern 'd arm hath butchered !
GLOUCESTER : Lady , you know no rules of charity , Which renders good for bad , blessings for curses .
LADY ANNE : Villain , thou know 'st no law of God nor man : No beast so fierce but knows some touch of pity .
GLOUCESTER : But I know none , and therefore am no beast .
LADY ANNE : O wonderful , when devils tell the truth !
