STANLEY : They have not been commanded , mighty sovereign : Please it your majesty to give me leave , I 'll muster up my friends , and meet your grace Where and what time your majesty shall please .
KING RICHARD III : Ay , ay. thou wouldst be gone to join with Richmond : I will not trust you , sir .
STANLEY : Most mighty sovereign , You have no cause to hold my friendship doubtful : I never was nor never will be false .
KING RICHARD III : Well , Go muster men ; but , hear you , leave behind Your son , George Stanley : look your faith be firm . Or else his head 's assurance is but frail .
STANLEY : So deal with him as I prove true to you . Exit Enter a Messenger
Messenger : My gracious sovereign , now in Devonshire , As I by friends am well advertised , Sir Edward Courtney , and the haughty prelate Bishop of Exeter , his brother there , With many more confederates , are in arms . Enter another Messenger
Second Messenger : My liege , in Kent the Guildfords are in arms ; And every hour more competitors Flock to their aid , and still their power increaseth . Enter another Messenger
Third Messenger : My lord , the army of the Duke of Buckingham--
KING RICHARD III : Out on you , owls ! nothing but songs of death ? He striketh him Take that , until thou bring me better news .
Third Messenger : The news I have to tell your majesty Is , that by sudden floods and fall of waters , Buckingham 's army is dispersed and scatter 'd ; And he himself wander 'd away alone , No man knows whither .
KING RICHARD III : I cry thee mercy : There is my purse to cure that blow of thine . Hath any well-advised friend proclaim 'd Reward to him that brings the traitor in ?
Third Messenger : Such proclamation hath been made , my liege . Enter another Messenger
Fourth Messenger : Sir Thomas Lovel and Lord Marquis Dorset , ' Tis said , my liege , in Yorkshire are in arms . Yet this good comfort bring I to your grace , The Breton navy is dispersed by tempest : Richmond , in Yorkshire , sent out a boat Unto the shore , to ask those on the banks If they were his assistants , yea or no ; Who answer 'd him , they came from Buckingham . Upon his party : he , mistrusting them , Hoisted sail and made away for Brittany .
KING RICHARD III : March on , march on , since we are up in arms ; If not to fight with foreign enemies , Yet to beat down these rebels here at home . Re-enter CATESBY
CATESBY : My liege , the Duke of Buckingham is taken ; That is the best news : that the Earl of Richmond Is with a mighty power landed at Milford , Is colder tidings , yet they must be told .
KING RICHARD III : Away towards Salisbury ! while we reason here , A royal battle might be won and lost Some one take order Buckingham be brought To Salisbury ; the rest march on with me . Enter DERBY and SIR CHRISTOPHER URSWICK
DERBY : Sir Christopher , tell Richmond this from me : That in the sty of this most bloody boar My son George Stanley is frank 'd up in hold : If I revolt , off goes young George 's head ; The fear of that withholds my present aid . But , tell me , where is princely Richmond now ?
CHRISTOPHER : At Pembroke , or at Harford-west , in Wales .
DERBY : What men of name resort to him ?
CHRISTOPHER : Sir Walter Herbert , a renowned soldier ; Sir Gilbert Talbot , Sir William Stanley ; Oxford , redoubted Pembroke , Sir James Blunt , And Rice ap Thomas with a valiant crew ; And many more of noble fame and worth : And towards London they do bend their course , If by the way they be not fought withal .
