HASTINGS : O momentary grace of mortal men , Which we more hunt for than the grace of God ! Who builds his hopes in air of your good looks , Lives like a drunken sailor on a mast , Ready , with every nod , to tumble down Into the fatal bowels of the deep .
LOVEL : Come , come , dispatch ; ' tis bootless to exclaim .
HASTINGS : O bloody Richard ! miserable England ! I prophesy the fearful 'st time to thee That ever wretched age hath look 'd upon . Come , lead me to the block ; bear him my head . They smile at me that shortly shall be dead . Enter GLOUCESTER and BUCKINGHAM , in rotten armour , marvellous ill- favoured
GLOUCESTER : Come , cousin , canst thou quake , and change thy colour , Murder thy breath in the middle of a word , And then begin again , and stop again , As if thou wert distraught and mad with terror ?
BUCKINGHAM : Tut , I can counterfeit the deep tragedian ; Speak and look back , and pry on every side , Tremble and start at wagging of a straw , Intending deep suspicion : ghastly looks Are at my service , like enforced smiles ; And both are ready in their offices , At any time , to grace my stratagems . But what , is Catesby gone ?
GLOUCESTER : He is ; and , see , he brings the mayor along . Enter the Lord Mayor and CATESBY
BUCKINGHAM : Lord mayor , --
GLOUCESTER : Look to the drawbridge there !
BUCKINGHAM : Hark ! a drum .
GLOUCESTER : Catesby , o 'erlook the walls .
BUCKINGHAM : Lord mayor , the reason we have sent--
GLOUCESTER : Look back , defend thee , here are enemies .
BUCKINGHAM : God and our innocency defend and guard us !
GLOUCESTER : Be patient , they are friends , Ratcliff and Lovel . Enter LOVEL and RATCLIFF , with HASTINGS ' head
LOVEL : Here is the head of that ignoble traitor , The dangerous and unsuspected Hastings .
GLOUCESTER : So dear I loved the man , that I must weep . I took him for the plainest harmless creature That breathed upon this earth a Christian ; Made him my book wherein my soul recorded The history of all her secret thoughts : So smooth he daub 'd his vice with show of virtue , That , his apparent open guilt omitted , I mean , his conversation with Shore 's wife , He lived from all attainder of suspect .
BUCKINGHAM : Well , well , he was the covert 'st shelter 'd traitor That ever lived . Would you imagine , or almost believe , Were 't not that , by great preservation , We live to tell it you , the subtle traitor This day had plotted , in the council-house To murder me and my good Lord of Gloucester ?
Lord Mayor : What , had he so ?
GLOUCESTER : What , think You we are Turks or infidels ? Or that we would , against the form of law , Proceed thus rashly to the villain 's death , But that the extreme peril of the case , The peace of England and our persons ' safety , Enforced us to this execution ?
Lord Mayor : Now , fair befall you ! he deserved his death ; And you my good lords , both have well proceeded , To warn false traitors from the like attempts . I never look 'd for better at his hands , After he once fell in with Mistress Shore .
GLOUCESTER : Yet had not we determined he should die , Until your lordship came to see his death ; Which now the loving haste of these our friends , Somewhat against our meaning , have prevented : Because , my lord , we would have had you heard The traitor speak , and timorously confess The manner and the purpose of his treason ; That you might well have signified the same Unto the citizens , who haply may Misconstrue us in him and wail his death .
