LADY ANNE : Would it were mortal poison , for thy sake !
GLOUCESTER : Never came poison from so sweet a place .
LADY ANNE : Never hung poison on a fouler toad . Out of my sight ! thou dost infect my eyes .
GLOUCESTER : Thine eyes , sweet lady , have infected mine .
LADY ANNE : Would they were basilisks , to strike thee dead !
GLOUCESTER : I would they were , that I might die at once ; For now they kill me with a living death . Those eyes of thine from mine have drawn salt tears , Shamed their aspect with store of childish drops : These eyes that never shed remorseful tear , No , when my father York and Edward wept , To hear the piteous moan that Rutland made When black-faced Clifford shook his sword at him ; Nor when thy warlike father , like a child , Told the sad story of my father 's death , And twenty times made pause to sob and weep , That all the standers-by had wet their cheeks Like trees bedash 'd with rain : in that sad time My manly eyes did scorn an humble tear ; And what these sorrows could not thence exhale , Thy beauty hath , and made them blind with weeping . I never sued to friend nor enemy ; My tongue could never learn sweet smoothing word ; But now thy beauty is proposed my fee , My proud heart sues , and prompts my tongue to speak . She looks scornfully at him Teach not thy lips such scorn , for they were made For kissing , lady , not for such contempt . If thy revengeful heart cannot forgive , Lo , here I lend thee this sharp-pointed sword ; Which if thou please to hide in this true bosom . And let the soul forth that adoreth thee , I lay it naked to the deadly stroke , And humbly beg the death upon my knee . He lays his breast open : she offers at it with his sword Nay , do not pause ; for I did kill King Henry , But ' twas thy beauty that provoked me . Nay , now dispatch ; ' twas I that stabb 'd young Edward , But ' twas thy heavenly face that set me on . Here she lets fall the sword Take up the sword again , or take up me .
LADY ANNE : Arise , dissembler : though I wish thy death , I will not be the executioner .
GLOUCESTER : Then bid me kill myself , and I will do it .
LADY ANNE : I have already .
GLOUCESTER : Tush , that was in thy rage : Speak it again , and , even with the word , That hand , which , for thy love , did kill thy love , Shall , for thy love , kill a far truer love ; To both their deaths thou shalt be accessary .
LADY ANNE : I would I knew thy heart .
GLOUCESTER : ' Tis figured in my tongue .
LADY ANNE : I fear me both are false .
GLOUCESTER : Then never man was true .
LADY ANNE : Well , well , put up your sword .
GLOUCESTER : Say , then , my peace is made .
LADY ANNE : That shall you know hereafter .
GLOUCESTER : But shall I live in hope ?
LADY ANNE : All men , I hope , live so .
GLOUCESTER : Vouchsafe to wear this ring .
LADY ANNE : To take is not to give .
GLOUCESTER : Look , how this ring encompasseth finger . Even so thy breast encloseth my poor heart ; Wear both of them , for both of them are thine . And if thy poor devoted suppliant may But beg one favour at thy gracious hand , Thou dost confirm his happiness for ever .
LADY ANNE : What is it ?
GLOUCESTER : That it would please thee leave these sad designs To him that hath more cause to be a mourner , And presently repair to Crosby Place ; Where , after I have solemnly interr 'd At Chertsey monastery this noble king , And wet his grave with my repentant tears , I will with all expedient duty see you : For divers unknown reasons . I beseech you , Grant me this boon .
