DUCHESS OF YORK : I had a Richard too , and thou didst kill him ; I had a Rutland too , thou holp 'st to kill him .
QUEEN MARGARET : Thou hadst a Clarence too , and Richard kill 'd him . From forth the kennel of thy womb hath crept A hell-hound that doth hunt us all to death : That dog , that had his teeth before his eyes , To worry lambs and lap their gentle blood , That foul defacer of God 's handiwork , That excellent grand tyrant of the earth , That reigns in galled eyes of weeping souls , Thy womb let loose , to chase us to our graves . O upright , just , and true-disposing God , How do I thank thee , that this carnal cur Preys on the issue of his mother 's body , And makes her pew-fellow with others ' moan !
DUCHESS OF YORK : O Harry 's wife , triumph not in my woes ! God witness with me , I have wept for thine .
QUEEN MARGARET : Bear with me ; I am hungry for revenge , And now I cloy me with beholding it . Thy Edward he is dead , that stabb 'd my Edward : Thy other Edward dead , to quit my Edward ; Young York he is but boot , because both they Match not the high perfection of my loss : Thy Clarence he is dead that kill 'd my Edward ; And the beholders of this tragic play , The adulterate Hastings , Rivers , Vaughan , Grey , Untimely smother 'd in their dusky graves . Richard yet lives , hell 's black intelligencer , Only reserved their factor , to buy souls And send them thither : but at hand , at hand , Ensues his piteous and unpitied end : Earth gapes , hell burns , fiends roar , saints pray . To have him suddenly convey 'd away . Cancel his bond of life , dear God , I prey , That I may live to say , The dog is dead !
QUEEN ELIZABETH : O , thou didst prophesy the time would come That I should wish for thee to help me curse That bottled spider , that foul bunch-back 'd toad !
QUEEN MARGARET : I call 'd thee then vain flourish of my fortune ; I call 'd thee then poor shadow , painted queen ; The presentation of but what I was ; The flattering index of a direful pageant ; One heaved a-high , to be hurl 'd down below ; A mother only mock 'd with two sweet babes ; A dream of what thou wert , a breath , a bubble , A sign of dignity , a garish flag , To be the aim of every dangerous shot , A queen in jest , only to fill the scene . Where is thy husband now ? where be thy brothers ? Where are thy children ? wherein dost thou , joy ? Who sues to thee and cries ' God save the queen ' ? Where be the bending peers that flatter 'd thee ? Where be the thronging troops that follow 'd thee ? Decline all this , and see what now thou art : For happy wife , a most distressed widow ; For joyful mother , one that wails the name ; For queen , a very caitiff crown 'd with care ; For one being sued to , one that humbly sues ; For one that scorn 'd at me , now scorn 'd of me ; For one being fear 'd of all , now fearing one ; For one commanding all , obey 'd of none . Thus hath the course of justice wheel 'd about , And left thee but a very prey to time ; Having no more but thought of what thou wert , To torture thee the more , being what thou art . Thou didst usurp my place , and dost thou not Usurp the just proportion of my sorrow ? Now thy proud neck bears half my burthen 'd yoke ; From which even here I slip my weary neck , And leave the burthen of it all on thee . Farewell , York 's wife , and queen of sad mischance : These English woes will make me smile in France .
