QUEEN MARGARET : And lessen 'd be that small , God , I beseech thee ! Thy honour , state and seat is due to me .
GLOUCESTER : What ! threat you me with telling of the king ? Tell him , and spare not : look , what I have said I will avouch in presence of the king : I dare adventure to be sent to the Tower . ' Tis time to speak ; my pains are quite forgot .
QUEEN MARGARET : Out , devil ! I remember them too well : Thou slewest my husband Henry in the Tower , And Edward , my poor son , at Tewksbury .
GLOUCESTER : Ere you were queen , yea , or your husband king , I was a pack-horse in his great affairs ; A weeder-out of his proud adversaries , A liberal rewarder of his friends : To royalize his blood I spilt mine own .
QUEEN MARGARET : Yea , and much better blood than his or thine .
GLOUCESTER : In all which time you and your husband Grey Were factious for the house of Lancaster ; And , Rivers , so were you . Was not your husband In Margaret 's battle at Saint Alban 's slain ? Let me put in your minds , if you forget , What you have been ere now , and what you are ; Withal , what I have been , and what I am .
QUEEN MARGARET : A murderous villain , and so still thou art .
GLOUCESTER : Poor Clarence did forsake his father , Warwick ; Yea , and forswore himself , --which Jesu pardon ! --
QUEEN MARGARET : Which God revenge !
GLOUCESTER : To fight on Edward 's party for the crown ; And for his meed , poor lord , he is mew 'd up . I would to God my heart were flint , like Edward 's ; Or Edward 's soft and pitiful , like mine I am too childish-foolish for this world .
QUEEN MARGARET : Hie thee to hell for shame , and leave the world , Thou cacodemon ! there thy kingdom is .
RIVERS : My Lord of Gloucester , in those busy days Which here you urge to prove us enemies , We follow 'd then our lord , our lawful king : So should we you , if you should be our king .
GLOUCESTER : If I should be ! I had rather be a pedlar : Far be it from my heart , the thought of it !
QUEEN ELIZABETH : As little joy , my lord , as you suppose You should enjoy , were you this country 's king , As little joy may you suppose in me . That I enjoy , being the queen thereof .
QUEEN MARGARET : A little joy enjoys the queen thereof ; For I am she , and altogether joyless . I can no longer hold me patient . Advancing Hear me , you wrangling pirates , that fall out In sharing that which you have pill 'd from me ! Which of you trembles not that looks on me ? If not , that , I being queen , you bow like subjects , Yet that , by you deposed , you quake like rebels ? O gentle villain , do not turn away !
GLOUCESTER : Foul wrinkled witch , what makest thou in my sight ?
QUEEN MARGARET : But repetition of what thou hast marr 'd ; That will I make before I let thee go .
GLOUCESTER : Wert thou not banished on pain of death ?
QUEEN MARGARET : I was ; but I do find more pain in banishment Than death can yield me here by my abode . A husband and a son thou owest to me ; And thou a kingdom ; all of you allegiance : The sorrow that I have , by right is yours , And all the pleasures you usurp are mine .
