Lord Mayor : See , where he stands between two clergymen !
BUCKINGHAM : Two props of virtue for a Christian prince , To stay him from the fall of vanity : And , see , a book of prayer in his hand , True ornaments to know a holy man . Famous Plantagenet , most gracious prince , Lend favourable ears to our request ; And pardon us the interruption Of thy devotion and right Christian zeal .
GLOUCESTER : My lord , there needs no such apology : I rather do beseech you pardon me , Who , earnest in the service of my God , Neglect the visitation of my friends . But , leaving this , what is your grace 's pleasure ?
BUCKINGHAM : Even that , I hope , which pleaseth God above , And all good men of this ungovern 'd isle .
GLOUCESTER : I do suspect I have done some offence That seems disgracious in the city 's eyes , And that you come to reprehend my ignorance .
BUCKINGHAM : You have , my lord : would it might please your grace , At our entreaties , to amend that fault !
GLOUCESTER : Else wherefore breathe I in a Christian land ?
BUCKINGHAM : Then know , it is your fault that you resign The supreme seat , the throne majestical , The scepter 'd office of your ancestors , Your state of fortune and your due of birth , The lineal glory of your royal house , To the corruption of a blemished stock : Whilst , in the mildness of your sleepy thoughts , Which here we waken to our country 's good , This noble isle doth want her proper limbs ; Her face defaced with scars of infamy , Her royal stock graft with ignoble plants , And almost shoulder 'd in the swallowing gulf Of blind forgetfulness and dark oblivion . Which to recure , we heartily solicit Your gracious self to take on you the charge And kingly government of this your land , Not as protector , steward , substitute , Or lowly factor for another 's gain ; But as successively from blood to blood , Your right of birth , your empery , your own . For this , consorted with the citizens , Your very worshipful and loving friends , And by their vehement instigation , In this just suit come I to move your grace .
GLOUCESTER : I know not whether to depart in silence , Or bitterly to speak in your reproof . Best fitteth my degree or your condition If not to answer , you might haply think Tongue-tied ambition , not replying , yielded To bear the golden yoke of sovereignty , Which fondly you would here impose on me ; If to reprove you for this suit of yours , So season 'd with your faithful love to me . Then , on the other side , I cheque 'd my friends . Therefore , to speak , and to avoid the first , And then , in speaking , not to incur the last , Definitively thus I answer you . Your love deserves my thanks ; but my desert Unmeritable shuns your high request . First if all obstacles were cut away , And that my path were even to the crown , As my ripe revenue and due by birth Yet so much is my poverty of spirit , So mighty and so many my defects , As I had rather hide me from my greatness , Being a bark to brook no mighty sea , Than in my greatness covet to be hid , And in the vapour of my glory smother 'd . But , God be thank 'd , there 's no need of me , And much I need to help you , if need were ; The royal tree hath left us royal fruit , Which , mellow 'd by the stealing hours of time , Will well become the seat of majesty , And make , no doubt , us happy by his reign . On him I lay what you would lay on me , The right and fortune of his happy stars ; Which God defend that I should wring from him !
