DORSET : Comfort , dear mother : God is much displeased That you take with unthankfulness , his doing : In common worldly things , ' tis call 'd ungrateful , With dull unwilligness to repay a debt Which with a bounteous hand was kindly lent ; Much more to be thus opposite with heaven , For it requires the royal debt it lent you .
RIVERS : Madam , bethink you , like a careful mother , Of the young prince your son : send straight for him Let him be crown 'd ; in him your comfort lives : Drown desperate sorrow in dead Edward 's grave , And plant your joys in living Edward 's throne . Enter GLOUCESTER , BUCKINGHAM , DERBY , HASTINGS , and RATCLIFF
GLOUCESTER : Madam , have comfort : all of us have cause To wail the dimming of our shining star ; But none can cure their harms by wailing them . Madam , my mother , I do cry you mercy ; I did not see your grace : humbly on my knee I crave your blessing .
DUCHESS OF YORK : God bless thee ; and put meekness in thy mind , Love , charity , obedience , and true duty !
GLOUCESTER : Amen ; and make me die a good old man ! That is the butt-end of a mother 's blessing : I marvel why her grace did leave it out .
BUCKINGHAM : You cloudy princes and heart-sorrowing peers , That bear this mutual heavy load of moan , Now cheer each other in each other 's love Though we have spent our harvest of this king , We are to reap the harvest of his son . The broken rancour of your high-swoln hearts , But lately splinter 'd , knit , and join 'd together , Must gently be preserved , cherish 'd , and kept : Me seemeth good , that , with some little train , Forthwith from Ludlow the young prince be fetch 'd Hither to London , to be crown 'd our king .
RIVERS : Why with some little train , my Lord of Buckingham ?
BUCKINGHAM : Marry , my lord , lest , by a multitude , The new-heal 'd wound of malice should break out , Which would be so much the more dangerous By how much the estate is green and yet ungovern 'd : Where every horse bears his commanding rein , And may direct his course as please himself , As well the fear of harm , as harm apparent , In my opinion , ought to be prevented .
GLOUCESTER : I hope the king made peace with all of us And the compact is firm and true in me .
RIVERS : And so in me ; and so , I think , in all : Yet , since it is but green , it should be put To no apparent likelihood of breach , Which haply by much company might be urged : Therefore I say with noble Buckingham , That it is meet so few should fetch the prince .
HASTINGS : And so say I.
GLOUCESTER : Then be it so ; and go we to determine Who they shall be that straight shall post to Ludlow . Madam , and you , my mother , will you go To give your censures in this weighty business ?
QUEEN ELIZABETH DUCHESS OF YORK : With all our harts .
BUCKINGHAM : My lord , whoever journeys to the Prince , For God 's sake , let not us two be behind ; For , by the way , I 'll sort occasion , As index to the story we late talk 'd of , To part the queen 's proud kindred from the king .
GLOUCESTER : My other self , my counsel 's consistory , My oracle , my prophet ! My dear cousin , I , like a child , will go by thy direction . Towards Ludlow then , for we 'll not stay behind . Enter two Citizens meeting
First Citizen : Neighbour , well met : whither away so fast ?
Second Citizen : I promise you , I scarcely know myself : Hear you the news abroad ?
First Citizen : Ay , that the king is dead .
