Third Citizen : Neighbours , God speed !
First Citizen : Give you good morrow , sir .
Third Citizen : Doth this news hold of good King Edward 's death ?
Second Citizen : Ay , sir , it is too true ; God help the while !
Third Citizen : Then , masters , look to see a troublous world .
First Citizen : No , no ; by God 's good grace his son shall reign .
Third Citizen : Woe to the land that 's govern 'd by a child !
Second Citizen : In him there is a hope of government , That in his nonage council under him , And in his full and ripen 'd years himself , No doubt , shall then and till then govern well .
First Citizen : So stood the state when Henry the Sixth Was crown 'd in Paris but at nine months old .
Third Citizen : Stood the state so ? No , no , good friends , God wot ; For then this land was famously enrich 'd With politic grave counsel ; then the king Had virtuous uncles to protect his grace .
First Citizen : Why , so hath this , both by the father and mother .
Third Citizen : Better it were they all came by the father , Or by the father there were none at all ; For emulation now , who shall be nearest , Will touch us all too near , if God prevent not . O , full of danger is the Duke of Gloucester ! And the queen 's sons and brothers haught and proud : And were they to be ruled , and not to rule , This sickly land might solace as before .
First Citizen : Come , come , we fear the worst ; all shall be well .
Third Citizen : When clouds appear , wise men put on their cloaks ; When great leaves fall , the winter is at hand ; When the sun sets , who doth not look for night ? Untimely storms make men expect a dearth . All may be well ; but , if God sort it so , ' Tis more than we deserve , or I expect .
Second Citizen : Truly , the souls of men are full of dread : Ye cannot reason almost with a man That looks not heavily and full of fear .
Third Citizen : Before the times of change , still is it so : By a divine instinct men 's minds mistrust Ensuing dangers ; as by proof , we see The waters swell before a boisterous storm . But leave it all to God. whither away ?
Second Citizen : Marry , we were sent for to the justices .
Third Citizen : And so was I : I 'll bear you company . Enter the ARCHBISHOP OF YORK , young YORK , QUEEN ELIZABETH , and the DUCHESS OF YORK
ARCHBISHOP OF YORK : Last night , I hear , they lay at Northampton ; At Stony-Stratford will they be to-night : To-morrow , or next day , they will be here .
DUCHESS OF YORK : I long with all my heart to see the prince : I hope he is much grown since last I saw him .
QUEEN ELIZABETH : But I hear , no ; they say my son of York Hath almost overta 'en him in his growth .
YORK : Ay , mother ; but I would not have it so .
DUCHESS OF YORK : Why , my young cousin , it is good to grow .
YORK : Grandam , one night , as we did sit at supper , My uncle Rivers talk 'd how I did grow More than my brother : ' Ay , ' quoth my uncle Gloucester , ' Small herbs have grace , great weeds do grow apace : ' And since , methinks , I would not grow so fast , Because sweet flowers are slow and weeds make haste .
DUCHESS OF YORK : Good faith , good faith , the saying did not hold In him that did object the same to thee ; He was the wretched 'st thing when he was young , So long a-growing and so leisurely , That , if this rule were true , he should be gracious .
ARCHBISHOP OF YORK : Why , madam , so , no doubt , he is .
