DORSET : Dispute not with her ; she is lunatic .
QUEEN MARGARET : Peace , master marquess , you are malapert : Your fire-new stamp of honour is scarce current . O , that your young nobility could judge What ' twere to lose it , and be miserable ! They that stand high have many blasts to shake them ; And if they fall , they dash themselves to pieces .
GLOUCESTER : Good counsel , marry : learn it , learn it , marquess .
DORSET : It toucheth you , my lord , as much as me .
GLOUCESTER : Yea , and much more : but I was born so high , Our aery buildeth in the cedar 's top , And dallies with the wind and scorns the sun .
QUEEN MARGARET : And turns the sun to shade ; alas ! alas ! Witness my son , now in the shade of death ; Whose bright out-shining beams thy cloudy wrath Hath in eternal darkness folded up . Your aery buildeth in our aery 's nest . O God , that seest it , do not suffer it ! As it was won with blood , lost be it so !
BUCKINGHAM : Have done ! for shame , if not for charity .
QUEEN MARGARET : Urge neither charity nor shame to me : Uncharitably with me have you dealt , And shamefully by you my hopes are butcher 'd . My charity is outrage , life my shame And in that shame still live my sorrow 's rage .
BUCKINGHAM : Have done , have done .
QUEEN MARGARET : O princely Buckingham I 'll kiss thy hand , In sign of league and amity with thee : Now fair befal thee and thy noble house ! Thy garments are not spotted with our blood , Nor thou within the compass of my curse .
BUCKINGHAM : Nor no one here ; for curses never pass The lips of those that breathe them in the air .
QUEEN MARGARET : I 'll not believe but they ascend the sky , And there awake God 's gentle-sleeping peace . O Buckingham , take heed of yonder dog ! Look , when he fawns , he bites ; and when he bites , His venom tooth will rankle to the death : Have not to do with him , beware of him ; Sin , death , and hell have set their marks on him , And all their ministers attend on him .
GLOUCESTER : What doth she say , my Lord of Buckingham ?
BUCKINGHAM : Nothing that I respect , my gracious lord .
QUEEN MARGARET : What , dost thou scorn me for my gentle counsel ? And soothe the devil that I warn thee from ? O , but remember this another day , When he shall split thy very heart with sorrow , And say poor Margaret was a prophetess ! Live each of you the subjects to his hate , And he to yours , and all of you to God 's ! Exit
HASTINGS : My hair doth stand on end to hear her curses .
RIVERS : And so doth mine : I muse why she 's at liberty .
GLOUCESTER : I cannot blame her : by God 's holy mother , She hath had too much wrong ; and I repent My part thereof that I have done to her .
QUEEN ELIZABETH : I never did her any , to my knowledge .
GLOUCESTER : But you have all the vantage of her wrong . I was too hot to do somebody good , That is too cold in thinking of it now . Marry , as for Clarence , he is well repaid , He is frank 'd up to fatting for his pains God pardon them that are the cause of it !
RIVERS : A virtuous and a Christian-like conclusion , To pray for them that have done scathe to us .
GLOUCESTER : So do I ever : Aside being well-advised . For had I cursed now , I had cursed myself . Enter CATESBY
CATESBY : Madam , his majesty doth call for you , And for your grace ; and you , my noble lords .
QUEEN ELIZABETH : Catesby , we come . Lords , will you go with us ?
RIVERS : Madam , we will attend your grace .
