BRAKENBURY : No marvel , my lord , though it affrighted you ; I promise , I am afraid to hear you tell it .
CLARENCE : O Brakenbury , I have done those things , Which now bear evidence against my soul , For Edward 's sake ; and see how he requites me ! O God ! if my deep prayers cannot appease thee , But thou wilt be avenged on my misdeeds , Yet execute thy wrath in me alone , O , spare my guiltless wife and my poor children ! I pray thee , gentle keeper , stay by me ; My soul is heavy , and I fain would sleep .
BRAKENBURY : I will , my lord : God give your grace good rest ! CLARENCE sleeps Sorrow breaks seasons and reposing hours , Makes the night morning , and the noon-tide night . Princes have but their tides for their glories , An outward honour for an inward toil ; And , for unfelt imagination , They often feel a world of restless cares : So that , betwixt their tides and low names , There 's nothing differs but the outward fame . Enter the two Murderers
First Murderer : Ho ! who 's here ?
BRAKENBURY : In God 's name what are you , and how came you hither ?
First Murderer : I would speak with Clarence , and I came hither on my legs .
BRAKENBURY : Yea , are you so brief ?
Second Murderer : O sir , it is better to be brief than tedious . Show him our commission ; talk no more . BRAKENBURY reads it
BRAKENBURY : I am , in this , commanded to deliver The noble Duke of Clarence to your hands : I will not reason what is meant hereby , Because I will be guiltless of the meaning . Here are the keys , there sits the duke asleep : I 'll to the king ; and signify to him That thus I have resign 'd my charge to you .
First Murderer : Do so , it is a point of wisdom : fare you well . Exit BRAKENBURY
Second Murderer : What , shall we stab him as he sleeps ?
First Murderer : No ; then he will say ' twas done cowardly , when he wakes .
Second Murderer : When he wakes ! why , fool , he shall never wake till the judgment-day .
First Murderer : Why , then he will say we stabbed him sleeping .
Second Murderer : The urging of that word ' judgment ' hath bred a kind of remorse in me .
First Murderer : What , art thou afraid ?
Second Murderer : Not to kill him , having a warrant for it ; but to be damned for killing him , from which no warrant can defend us .
First Murderer : I thought thou hadst been resolute .
Second Murderer : So I am , to let him live .
First Murderer : Back to the Duke of Gloucester , tell him so .
Second Murderer : I pray thee , stay a while : I hope my holy humour will change ; ' twas wont to hold me but while one would tell twenty .
First Murderer : How dost thou feel thyself now ?
Second Murderer : ' Faith , some certain dregs of conscience are yet within me .
First Murderer : Remember our reward , when the deed is done .
Second Murderer : ' Zounds , he dies : I had forgot the reward .
First Murderer : Where is thy conscience now ?
Second Murderer : In the Duke of Gloucester 's purse .
First Murderer : So when he opens his purse to give us our reward , thy conscience flies out .
Second Murderer : Let it go ; there 's few or none will entertain it .
First Murderer : How if it come to thee again ?
