First Murderer : Who made thee , then , a bloody minister , When gallant-springing brave Plantagenet , That princely novice , was struck dead by thee ?
CLARENCE : My brother 's love , the devil , and my rage .
First Murderer : Thy brother 's love , our duty , and thy fault , Provoke us hither now to slaughter thee .
CLARENCE : Oh , if you love my brother , hate not me ; I am his brother , and I love him well . If you be hired for meed , go back again , And I will send you to my brother Gloucester , Who shall reward you better for my life Than Edward will for tidings of my death .
Second Murderer : You are deceived , your brother Gloucester hates you .
CLARENCE : O , no , he loves me , and he holds me dear : Go you to him from me .
Both : Ay , so we will .
CLARENCE : Tell him , when that our princely father York Bless 'd his three sons with his victorious arm , And charged us from his soul to love each other , He little thought of this divided friendship : Bid Gloucester think of this , and he will weep .
First Murderer : Ay , millstones ; as be lesson 'd us to weep .
CLARENCE : O , do not slander him , for he is kind .
First Murderer : Right , As snow in harvest . Thou deceivest thyself : ' Tis he that sent us hither now to slaughter thee .
CLARENCE : It cannot be ; for when I parted with him , He hugg 'd me in his arms , and swore , with sobs , That he would labour my delivery .
Second Murderer : Why , so he doth , now he delivers thee From this world 's thraldom to the joys of heaven .
First Murderer : Make peace with God , for you must die , my lord .
CLARENCE : Hast thou that holy feeling in thy soul , To counsel me to make my peace with God , And art thou yet to thy own soul so blind , That thou wilt war with God by murdering me ? Ah , sirs , consider , he that set you on To do this deed will hate you for the deed .
Second Murderer : What shall we do ?
CLARENCE : Relent , and save your souls .
First Murderer : Relent ! ' tis cowardly and womanish .
CLARENCE : Not to relent is beastly , savage , devilish . Which of you , if you were a prince 's son , Being pent from liberty , as I am now , if two such murderers as yourselves came to you , Would not entreat for life ? My friend , I spy some pity in thy looks : O , if thine eye be not a flatterer , Come thou on my side , and entreat for me , As you would beg , were you in my distress A begging prince what beggar pities not ?
Second Murderer : Look behind you , my lord .
First Murderer : Take that , and that : if all this will not do , Stabs him I 'll drown you in the malmsey-butt within . Exit , with the body
Second Murderer : A bloody deed , and desperately dispatch 'd ! How fain , like Pilate , would I wash my hands Of this most grievous guilty murder done ! Re-enter First Murderer
First Murderer : How now ! what mean 'st thou , that thou help 'st me not ? By heavens , the duke shall know how slack thou art !
Second Murderer : I would he knew that I had saved his brother ! Take thou the fee , and tell him what I say ; For I repent me that the duke is slain . Exit
First Murderer : So do not I : go , coward as thou art . Now must I hide his body in some hole , Until the duke take order for his burial : And when I have my meed , I must away ; For this will out , and here I must not stay . Flourish . Enter KING EDWARD IV sick , QUEEN ELIZABETH , DORSET , RIVERS , HASTINGS , BUCKINGHAM , GREY , and others
