KING RICHARD III : Even he that makes her queen who should be else ?
QUEEN ELIZABETH : What , thou ?
KING RICHARD III : I , even I : what think you of it , madam ?
QUEEN ELIZABETH : How canst thou woo her ?
KING RICHARD III : That would I learn of you , As one that are best acquainted with her humour .
QUEEN ELIZABETH : And wilt thou learn of me ?
KING RICHARD III : Madam , with all my heart .
QUEEN ELIZABETH : Send to her , by the man that slew her brothers , A pair of bleeding-hearts ; thereon engrave Edward and York ; then haply she will weep : Therefore present to her--as sometime Margaret Did to thy father , steep 'd in Rutland 's blood , -- A handkerchief ; which , say to her , did drain The purple sap from her sweet brother 's body And bid her dry her weeping eyes therewith . If this inducement force her not to love , Send her a story of thy noble acts ; Tell her thou madest away her uncle Clarence , Her uncle Rivers ; yea , and , for her sake , Madest quick conveyance with her good aunt Anne .
KING RICHARD III : Come , come , you mock me ; this is not the way To win our daughter .
QUEEN ELIZABETH : There is no other way Unless thou couldst put on some other shape , And not be Richard that hath done all this .
KING RICHARD III : Say that I did all this for love of her .
QUEEN ELIZABETH : Nay , then indeed she cannot choose but hate thee , Having bought love with such a bloody spoil .
KING RICHARD III : Look , what is done cannot be now amended : Men shall deal unadvisedly sometimes , Which after hours give leisure to repent . If I did take the kingdom from your sons , To make amends , Ill give it to your daughter . If I have kill 'd the issue of your womb , To quicken your increase , I will beget Mine issue of your blood upon your daughter A grandam 's name is little less in love Than is the doting title of a mother ; They are as children but one step below , Even of your mettle , of your very blood ; Of an one pain , save for a night of groans Endured of her , for whom you bid like sorrow . Your children were vexation to your youth , But mine shall be a comfort to your age . The loss you have is but a son being king , And by that loss your daughter is made queen . I cannot make you what amends I would , Therefore accept such kindness as I can . Dorset your son , that with a fearful soul Leads discontented steps in foreign soil , This fair alliance quickly shall call home To high promotions and great dignity : The king , that calls your beauteous daughter wife . Familiarly shall call thy Dorset brother ; Again shall you be mother to a king , And all the ruins of distressful times Repair 'd with double riches of content . What ! we have many goodly days to see : The liquid drops of tears that you have shed Shall come again , transform 'd to orient pearl , Advantaging their loan with interest Of ten times double gain of happiness . Go , then my mother , to thy daughter go Make bold her bashful years with your experience ; Prepare her ears to hear a wooer 's tale Put in her tender heart the aspiring flame Of golden sovereignty ; acquaint the princess With the sweet silent hours of marriage joys And when this arm of mine hath chastised The petty rebel , dull-brain 'd Buckingham , Bound with triumphant garlands will I come And lead thy daughter to a conqueror 's bed ; To whom I will retail my conquest won , And she shall be sole victress , Caesar 's Caesar .
