Lord Mayor : God bless your grace with health and happy days !
PRINCE EDWARD : I thank you , good my lord ; and thank you all . I thought my mother , and my brother York , Would long ere this have met us on the way Fie , what a slug is Hastings , that he comes not To tell us whether they will come or no ! Enter HASTINGS
BUCKINGHAM : And , in good time , here comes the sweating lord .
PRINCE EDWARD : Welcome , my lord : what , will our mother come ?
HASTINGS : On what occasion , God he knows , not I , The queen your mother , and your brother York , Have taken sanctuary : the tender prince Would fain have come with me to meet your grace , But by his mother was perforce withheld .
BUCKINGHAM : Fie , what an indirect and peevish course Is this of hers ! Lord cardinal , will your grace Persuade the queen to send the Duke of York Unto his princely brother presently ? If she deny , Lord Hastings , go with him , And from her jealous arms pluck him perforce .
CARDINAL : My Lord of Buckingham , if my weak oratory Can from his mother win the Duke of York , Anon expect him here ; but if she be obdurate To mild entreaties , God in heaven forbid We should infringe the holy privilege Of blessed sanctuary ! not for all this land Would I be guilty of so deep a sin .
BUCKINGHAM : You are too senseless--obstinate , my lord , Too ceremonious and traditional Weigh it but with the grossness of this age , You break not sanctuary in seizing him . The benefit thereof is always granted To those whose dealings have deserved the place , And those who have the wit to claim the place : This prince hath neither claim 'd it nor deserved it ; And therefore , in mine opinion , cannot have it : Then , taking him from thence that is not there , You break no privilege nor charter there . Oft have I heard of sanctuary men ; But sanctuary children ne 'er till now .
CARDINAL : My lord , you shall o 'er-rule my mind for once . Come on , Lord Hastings , will you go with me ?
HASTINGS : I go , my lord .
PRINCE EDWARD : Good lords , make all the speedy haste you may . Say , uncle Gloucester , if our brother come , Where shall we sojourn till our coronation ?
GLOUCESTER : Where it seems best unto your royal self . If I may counsel you , some day or two Your highness shall repose you at the Tower : Then where you please , and shall be thought most fit For your best health and recreation .
PRINCE EDWARD : I do not like the Tower , of any place . Did Julius Caesar build that place , my lord ?
BUCKINGHAM : He did , my gracious lord , begin that place ; Which , since , succeeding ages have re-edified .
PRINCE EDWARD : Is it upon record , or else reported Successively from age to age , he built it ?
BUCKINGHAM : Upon record , my gracious lord .
PRINCE EDWARD : But say , my lord , it were not register 'd , Methinks the truth should live from age to age , As ' twere retail 'd to all posterity , Even to the general all-ending day .
GLOUCESTER : So wise so young , they say , do never live long .
PRINCE EDWARD : What say you , uncle ?
GLOUCESTER : I say , without characters , fame lives long . Aside Thus , like the formal vice , Iniquity , I moralize two meanings in one word .
PRINCE EDWARD : That Julius Caesar was a famous man ; With what his valour did enrich his wit , His wit set down to make his valour live Death makes no conquest of this conqueror ; For now he lives in fame , though not in life . I 'll tell you what , my cousin Buckingham , --
BUCKINGHAM : What , my gracious lord ?
