RICHMOND : Good lords , conduct him to his regiment : I 'll strive , with troubled thoughts , to take a nap , Lest leaden slumber peise me down to-morrow , When I should mount with wings of victory : Once more , good night , kind lords and gentlemen . O Thou , whose captain I account myself , Look on my forces with a gracious eye ; Put in their hands thy bruising irons of wrath , That they may crush down with a heavy fall The usurping helmets of our adversaries ! Make us thy ministers of chastisement , That we may praise thee in the victory ! To thee I do commend my watchful soul , Ere I let fall the windows of mine eyes : Sleeping and waking , O , defend me still ! Sleeps Enter the Ghost of Prince Edward , son to King Henry VI Ghost
of Prince Edward : Let me sit heavy on thy soul to-morrow ! Think , how thou stab 'dst me in my prime of youth At Tewksbury : despair , therefore , and die ! To RICHMOND Be cheerful , Richmond ; for the wronged souls Of butcher 'd princes fight in thy behalf King Henry 's issue , Richmond , comforts thee . Enter the Ghost of King Henry VI Ghost
of King Henry VI : When I was mortal , my anointed body By thee was punched full of deadly holes Think on the Tower and me : despair , and die ! Harry the Sixth bids thee despair , and die ! To RICHMOND Virtuous and holy , be thou conqueror ! Harry , that prophesied thou shouldst be king , Doth comfort thee in thy sleep : live , and flourish ! Enter the Ghost of CLARENCE
Ghost of CLARENCE : Let me sit heavy on thy soul to-morrow ! I , that was wash 'd to death with fulsome wine , Poor Clarence , by thy guile betrayed to death ! To-morrow in the battle think on me , And fall thy edgeless sword : despair , and die ! -- To RICHMOND Thou offspring of the house of Lancaster The wronged heirs of York do pray for thee Good angels guard thy battle ! live , and flourish ! Enter the Ghosts of RIVERS , GRAY , and VAUGHAN
Ghost of RIVERS : Let me sit heavy on thy soul to-morrow , Rivers. that died at Pomfret ! despair , and die !
Ghost of GREY : Think upon Grey , and let thy soul despair !
Ghost of VAUGHAN : Think upon Vaughan , and , with guilty fear , Let fall thy lance : despair , and die !
All : Awake , and think our wrongs in Richard 's bosom Will conquer him ! awake , and win the day ! Enter the Ghost of HASTINGS
Ghost of HASTINGS : Bloody and guilty , guiltily awake , And in a bloody battle end thy days ! Think on Lord Hastings : despair , and die ! To RICHMOND Quiet untroubled soul , awake , awake ! Arm , fight , and conquer , for fair England 's sake ! Enter the Ghosts of the two young Princes Ghosts
of young Princes : Dream on thy cousins smother 'd in the Tower : Let us be led within thy bosom , Richard , And weigh thee down to ruin , shame , and death ! Thy nephews ' souls bid thee despair and die ! To RICHMOND Sleep , Richmond , sleep in peace , and wake in joy ; Good angels guard thee from the boar 's annoy ! Live , and beget a happy race of kings ! Edward 's unhappy sons do bid thee flourish . Enter the Ghost of LADY ANNE
Ghost of LADY ANNE : Richard , thy wife , that wretched Anne thy wife , That never slept a quiet hour with thee , Now fills thy sleep with perturbations To-morrow in the battle think on me , And fall thy edgeless sword : despair , and die ! To RICHMOND Thou quiet soul , sleep thou a quiet sleep Dream of success and happy victory ! Thy adversary 's wife doth pray for thee . Enter the Ghost of BUCKINGHAM Ghost
