CATESBY : He for his father 's sake so loves the prince , That he will not be won to aught against him .
BUCKINGHAM : What think 'st thou , then , of Stanley ? what will he ?
CATESBY : He will do all in all as Hastings doth .
BUCKINGHAM : Well , then , no more but this : go , gentle Catesby , And , as it were far off sound thou Lord Hastings , How doth he stand affected to our purpose ; And summon him to-morrow to the Tower , To sit about the coronation . If thou dost find him tractable to us , Encourage him , and show him all our reasons : If he be leaden , icy-cold , unwilling , Be thou so too ; and so break off your talk , And give us notice of his inclination : For we to-morrow hold divided councils , Wherein thyself shalt highly be employ 'd .
GLOUCESTER : Commend me to Lord William : tell him , Catesby , His ancient knot of dangerous adversaries To-morrow are let blood at Pomfret-castle ; And bid my friend , for joy of this good news , Give mistress Shore one gentle kiss the more .
BUCKINGHAM : Good Catesby , go , effect this business soundly .
CATESBY : My good lords both , with all the heed I may .
GLOUCESTER : Shall we hear from you , Catesby , ere we sleep ?
CATESBY : You shall , my lord .
GLOUCESTER : At Crosby Place , there shall you find us both . Exit CATESBY
BUCKINGHAM : Now , my lord , what shall we do , if we perceive Lord Hastings will not yield to our complots ?
GLOUCESTER : Chop off his head , man ; somewhat we will do : And , look , when I am king , claim thou of me The earldom of Hereford , and the moveables Whereof the king my brother stood possess 'd .
BUCKINGHAM : I 'll claim that promise at your grace 's hands .
GLOUCESTER : And look to have it yielded with all willingness . Come , let us sup betimes , that afterwards We may digest our complots in some form . Enter a Messenger
Messenger : What , ho ! my lord !
HASTINGS : Who knocks at the door ?
Messenger : A messenger from the Lord Stanley . Enter HASTINGS
HASTINGS : What is 't o 'clock ?
Messenger : Upon the stroke of four .
HASTINGS : Cannot thy master sleep these tedious nights ?
Messenger : So it should seem by that I have to say . First , he commends him to your noble lordship .
HASTINGS : And then ?
Messenger : And then he sends you word He dreamt to-night the boar had razed his helm : Besides , he says there are two councils held ; And that may be determined at the one which may make you and him to rue at the other . Therefore he sends to know your lordship 's pleasure , If presently you will take horse with him , And with all speed post with him toward the north , To shun the danger that his soul divines .
HASTINGS : Go , fellow , go , return unto thy lord ; Bid him not fear the separated councils His honour and myself are at the one , And at the other is my servant Catesby Where nothing can proceed that toucheth us Whereof I shall not have intelligence . Tell him his fears are shallow , wanting instance : And for his dreams , I wonder he is so fond To trust the mockery of unquiet slumbers To fly the boar before the boar pursues , Were to incense the boar to follow us And make pursuit where he did mean no chase . Go , bid thy master rise and come to me And we will both together to the Tower , Where , he shall see , the boar will use us kindly .
Messenger : My gracious lord , I 'll tell him what you say . Exit Enter CATESBY
CATESBY : Many good morrows to my noble lord !
HASTINGS : Good morrow , Catesby ; you are early stirring What news , what news , in this our tottering state ?
