Girl : And so will I.
DUCHESS OF YORK : Peace , children , peace ! the king doth love you well : Incapable and shallow innocents , You cannot guess who caused your father 's death .
Boy : Grandam , we can ; for my good uncle Gloucester Told me , the king , provoked by the queen , Devised impeachments to imprison him : And when my uncle told me so , he wept , And hugg 'd me in his arm , and kindly kiss 'd my cheek ; Bade me rely on him as on my father , And he would love me dearly as his child .
DUCHESS OF YORK : Oh , that deceit should steal such gentle shapes , And with a virtuous vizard hide foul guile ! He is my son ; yea , and therein my shame ; Yet from my dugs he drew not this deceit .
Boy : Think you my uncle did dissemble , grandam ?
DUCHESS OF YORK : Ay , boy .
Boy : I cannot think it . Hark ! what noise is this ? Enter QUEEN ELIZABETH , with her hair about her ears ; RIVERS , and DORSET after her
QUEEN ELIZABETH : Oh , who shall hinder me to wail and weep , To chide my fortune , and torment myself ? I 'll join with black despair against my soul , And to myself become an enemy .
DUCHESS OF YORK : What means this scene of rude impatience ?
QUEEN ELIZABETH : To make an act of tragic violence : Edward , my lord , your son , our king , is dead . Why grow the branches now the root is wither 'd ? Why wither not the leaves the sap being gone ? If you will live , lament ; if die , be brief , That our swift-winged souls may catch the king 's ; Or , like obedient subjects , follow him To his new kingdom of perpetual rest .
DUCHESS OF YORK : Ah , so much interest have I in thy sorrow As I had title in thy noble husband ! I have bewept a worthy husband 's death , And lived by looking on his images : But now two mirrors of his princely semblance Are crack 'd in pieces by malignant death , And I for comfort have but one false glass , Which grieves me when I see my shame in him . Thou art a widow ; yet thou art a mother , And hast the comfort of thy children left thee : But death hath snatch 'd my husband from mine arms , And pluck 'd two crutches from my feeble limbs , Edward and Clarence . O , what cause have I , Thine being but a moiety of my grief , To overgo thy plaints and drown thy cries !
Boy : Good aunt , you wept not for our father 's death ; How can we aid you with our kindred tears ?
Girl : Our fatherless distress was left unmoan 'd ; Your widow-dolour likewise be unwept !
QUEEN ELIZABETH : Give me no help in lamentation ; I am not barren to bring forth complaints All springs reduce their currents to mine eyes , That I , being govern 'd by the watery moon , May send forth plenteous tears to drown the world ! Oh for my husband , for my dear lord Edward !
Children : Oh for our father , for our dear lord Clarence !
DUCHESS OF YORK : Alas for both , both mine , Edward and Clarence !
QUEEN ELIZABETH : What stay had I but Edward ? and he 's gone .
Children : What stay had we but Clarence ? and he 's gone .
DUCHESS OF YORK : What stays had I but they ? and they are gone .
QUEEN ELIZABETH : Was never widow had so dear a loss !
Children : Were never orphans had so dear a loss !
