GLOUCESTER : And to that end we wish 'd your lord-ship here , To avoid the carping censures of the world .
BUCKINGHAM : But since you come too late of our intents , Yet witness what you hear we did intend : And so , my good lord mayor , we bid farewell . Exit Lord Mayor
GLOUCESTER : Go , after , after , cousin Buckingham . The mayor towards Guildhall hies him in all post : There , at your meet 'st advantage of the time , Infer the bastardy of Edward 's children : Tell them how Edward put to death a citizen , Only for saying he would make his son Heir to the crown ; meaning indeed his house , Which , by the sign thereof was termed so . Moreover , urge his hateful luxury And bestial appetite in change of lust ; Which stretched to their servants , daughters , wives , Even where his lustful eye or savage heart , Without control , listed to make his prey . Nay , for a need , thus far come near my person : Tell them , when that my mother went with child Of that unsatiate Edward , noble York My princely father then had wars in France And , by just computation of the time , Found that the issue was not his begot ; Which well appeared in his lineaments , Being nothing like the noble duke my father : But touch this sparingly , as ' twere far off , Because you know , my lord , my mother lives .
BUCKINGHAM : Fear not , my lord , I 'll play the orator As if the golden fee for which I plead Were for myself : and so , my lord , adieu .
GLOUCESTER : If you thrive well , bring them to Baynard 's Castle ; Where you shall find me well accompanied With reverend fathers and well-learned bishops .
BUCKINGHAM : I go : and towards three or four o 'clock Look for the news that the Guildhall affords . Exit BUCKINGHAM
GLOUCESTER : Go , Lovel , with all speed to Doctor Shaw ; To CATESBY Go thou to Friar Penker ; bid them both Meet me within this hour at Baynard 's Castle . Now will I in , to take some privy order , To draw the brats of Clarence out of sight ; And to give notice , that no manner of person At any time have recourse unto the princes . Exit Enter a Scrivener , with a paper in his hand
Scrivener : This is the indictment of the good Lord Hastings ; Which in a set hand fairly is engross 'd , That it may be this day read over in Paul 's . And mark how well the sequel hangs together : Eleven hours I spent to write it over , For yesternight by Catesby was it brought me ; The precedent was full as long a-doing : And yet within these five hours lived Lord Hastings , Untainted , unexamined , free , at liberty Here 's a good world the while ! Why who 's so gross , That seeth not this palpable device ? Yet who 's so blind , but says he sees it not ? Bad is the world ; and all will come to nought , When such bad dealings must be seen in thought . Exit Enter GLOUCESTER and BUCKINGHAM , at several doors
GLOUCESTER : How now , my lord , what say the citizens ?
BUCKINGHAM : Now , by the holy mother of our Lord , The citizens are mum and speak not a word .
GLOUCESTER : Touch 'd you the bastardy of Edward 's children ?
