First Murderer : ' Zounds , it is even now at my elbow , persuading me not to kill the duke .
Second Murderer : Take the devil in thy mind , and relieve him not : he would insinuate with thee but to make thee sigh .
First Murderer : Tut , I am strong-framed , he cannot prevail with me , I warrant thee .
Second Murderer : Spoke like a tail fellow that respects his reputation . Come , shall we to this gear ?
First Murderer : Take him over the costard with the hilts of thy sword , and then we will chop him in the malmsey-butt in the next room .
Second Murderer : O excellent devise ! make a sop of him .
First Murderer : Hark ! he stirs : shall I strike ?
Second Murderer : No , first let 's reason with him .
CLARENCE : Where art thou , keeper ? give me a cup of wine .
Second murderer : You shall have wine enough , my lord , anon .
CLARENCE : In God 's name , what art thou ?
Second Murderer : A man , as you are .
CLARENCE : But not , as I am , royal .
Second Murderer : Nor you , as we are , loyal .
CLARENCE : Thy voice is thunder , but thy looks are humble .
Second Murderer : My voice is now the king 's , my looks mine own .
CLARENCE : How darkly and how deadly dost thou speak ! Your eyes do menace me : why look you pale ? Who sent you hither ? Wherefore do you come ?
Both : To , to , to--
CLARENCE : To murder me ?
Both : Ay , ay .
CLARENCE : You scarcely have the hearts to tell me so , And therefore cannot have the hearts to do it . Wherein , my friends , have I offended you ?
First Murderer : Offended us you have not , but the king .
CLARENCE : I shall be reconciled to him again .
Second Murderer : Never , my lord ; therefore prepare to die .
CLARENCE : Are you call 'd forth from out a world of men To slay the innocent ? What is my offence ? Where are the evidence that do accuse me ? What lawful quest have given their verdict up Unto the frowning judge ? or who pronounced The bitter sentence of poor Clarence ' death ? Before I be convict by course of law , To threaten me with death is most unlawful . I charge you , as you hope to have redemption By Christ 's dear blood shed for our grievous sins , That you depart and lay no hands on me The deed you undertake is damnable .
First Murderer : What we will do , we do upon command .
Second Murderer : And he that hath commanded is the king .
CLARENCE : Erroneous vassal ! the great King of kings Hath in the tables of his law commanded That thou shalt do no murder : and wilt thou , then , Spurn at his edict and fulfil a man 's ? Take heed ; for he holds vengeance in his hands , To hurl upon their heads that break his law .
Second Murderer : And that same vengeance doth he hurl on thee , For false forswearing and for murder too : Thou didst receive the holy sacrament , To fight in quarrel of the house of Lancaster .
First Murderer : And , like a traitor to the name of God , Didst break that vow ; and with thy treacherous blade Unrip 'dst the bowels of thy sovereign 's son .
Second Murderer : Whom thou wert sworn to cherish and defend .
First Murderer : How canst thou urge God 's dreadful law to us , When thou hast broke it in so dear degree ?
