DORSET : Ay , my good lord ; and no one in this presence But his red colour hath forsook his cheeks .
KING EDWARD IV : Is Clarence dead ? the order was reversed .
GLOUCESTER : But he , poor soul , by your first order died , And that a winged Mercury did bear : Some tardy cripple bore the countermand , That came too lag to see him buried . God grant that some , less noble and less loyal , Nearer in bloody thoughts , but not in blood , Deserve not worse than wretched Clarence did , And yet go current from suspicion ! Enter DERBY
DERBY : A boon , my sovereign , for my service done !
KING EDWARD IV : I pray thee , peace : my soul is full of sorrow .
DERBY : I will not rise , unless your highness grant .
KING EDWARD IV : Then speak at once what is it thou demand 'st .
DERBY : The forfeit , sovereign , of my servant 's life ; Who slew to-day a righteous gentleman Lately attendant on the Duke of Norfolk .
KING EDWARD IV : Have a tongue to doom my brother 's death , And shall the same give pardon to a slave ? My brother slew no man ; his fault was thought , And yet his punishment was cruel death . Who sued to me for him ? who , in my rage , Kneel 'd at my feet , and bade me be advised Who spake of brotherhood ? who spake of love ? Who told me how the poor soul did forsake The mighty Warwick , and did fight for me ? Who told me , in the field by Tewksbury When Oxford had me down , he rescued me , And said , ' Dear brother , live , and be a king ' ? Who told me , when we both lay in the field Frozen almost to death , how he did lap me Even in his own garments , and gave himself , All thin and naked , to the numb cold night ? All this from my remembrance brutish wrath Sinfully pluck 'd , and not a man of you Had so much grace to put it in my mind . But when your carters or your waiting-vassals Have done a drunken slaughter , and defaced The precious image of our dear Redeemer , You straight are on your knees for pardon , pardon ; And I unjustly too , must grant it you But for my brother not a man would speak , Nor I , ungracious , speak unto myself For him , poor soul . The proudest of you all Have been beholding to him in his life ; Yet none of you would once plead for his life . O God , I fear thy justice will take hold On me , and you , and mine , and yours for this ! Come , Hastings , help me to my closet . Oh , poor Clarence !
GLOUCESTER : This is the fruit of rashness ! Mark 'd you not How that the guilty kindred of the queen Look 'd pale when they did hear of Clarence ' death ? O , they did urge it still unto the king ! God will revenge it . But come , let us in , To comfort Edward with our company .
BUCKINGHAM : We wait upon your grace . Enter the DUCHESS OF YORK , with the two children of CLARENCE
Boy : Tell me , good grandam , is our father dead ?
DUCHESS OF YORK : No , boy .
Boy : Why do you wring your hands , and beat your breast , And cry ' O Clarence , my unhappy son ! '
Girl : Why do you look on us , and shake your head , And call us wretches , orphans , castaways If that our noble father be alive ?
DUCHESS OF YORK : My pretty cousins , you mistake me much ; I do lament the sickness of the king . As loath to lose him , not your father 's death ; It were lost sorrow to wail one that 's lost .
