QUEEN ELIZABETH : What likelihood of his amendment , lords ?
BUCKINGHAM : Madam , good hope ; his grace speaks cheerfully .
QUEEN ELIZABETH : God grant him health ! Did you confer with him ?
BUCKINGHAM : Madam , we did : he desires to make atonement Betwixt the Duke of Gloucester and your brothers , And betwixt them and my lord chamberlain ; And sent to warn them to his royal presence .
QUEEN ELIZABETH : Would all were well ! but that will never be I fear our happiness is at the highest . Enter GLOUCESTER , HASTINGS , and DORSET
GLOUCESTER : They do me wrong , and I will not endure it : Who are they that complain unto the king , That I , forsooth , am stern , and love them not ? By holy Paul , they love his grace but lightly That fill his ears with such dissentious rumours . Because I cannot flatter and speak fair , Smile in men 's faces , smooth , deceive and cog , Duck with French nods and apish courtesy , I must be held a rancorous enemy . Cannot a plain man live and think no harm , But thus his simple truth must be abused By silken , sly , insinuating Jacks ?
RIVERS : To whom in all this presence speaks your grace ?
GLOUCESTER : To thee , that hast nor honesty nor grace . When have I injured thee ? when done thee wrong ? Or thee ? or thee ? or any of your faction ? A plague upon you all ! His royal person , -- Whom God preserve better than you would wish ! -- Cannot be quiet scarce a breathing-while , But you must trouble him with lewd complaints .
QUEEN ELIZABETH : Brother of Gloucester , you mistake the matter . The king , of his own royal disposition , And not provoked by any suitor else ; Aiming , belike , at your interior hatred , Which in your outward actions shows itself Against my kindred , brothers , and myself , Makes him to send ; that thereby he may gather The ground of your ill-will , and so remove it .
GLOUCESTER : I cannot tell : the world is grown so bad , That wrens make prey where eagles dare not perch : Since every Jack became a gentleman There 's many a gentle person made a Jack .
QUEEN ELIZABETH : Come , come , we know your meaning , brother Gloucester ; You envy my advancement and my friends ' : God grant we never may have need of you !
GLOUCESTER : Meantime , God grants that we have need of you : Your brother is imprison 'd by your means , Myself disgraced , and the nobility Held in contempt ; whilst many fair promotions Are daily given to ennoble those That scarce , some two days since , were worth a noble .
QUEEN ELIZABETH : By Him that raised me to this careful height From that contented hap which I enjoy 'd , I never did incense his majesty Against the Duke of Clarence , but have been An earnest advocate to plead for him . My lord , you do me shameful injury , Falsely to draw me in these vile suspects .
GLOUCESTER : You may deny that you were not the cause Of my Lord Hastings ' late imprisonment .
RIVERS : She may , my lord , for--
GLOUCESTER : She may , Lord Rivers ! why , who knows not so ? She may do more , sir , than denying that : She may help you to many fair preferments , And then deny her aiding hand therein , And lay those honours on your high deserts . What may she not ? She may , yea , marry , may she--
RIVERS : What , marry , may she ?
GLOUCESTER : What , marry , may she ! marry with a king , A bachelor , a handsome stripling too : I wis your grandam had a worser match .
