First Murderer : We are , my lord ; and come to have the warrant That we may be admitted where he is .
GLOUCESTER : Well thought upon ; I have it here about me . Gives the warrant When you have done , repair to Crosby Place . But , sirs , be sudden in the execution , Withal obdurate , do not hear him plead ; For Clarence is well-spoken , and perhaps May move your hearts to pity if you mark him .
First Murderer : Tush ! Fear not , my lord , we will not stand to prate ; Talkers are no good doers : be assured We come to use our hands and not our tongues .
GLOUCESTER : Your eyes drop millstones , when fools ' eyes drop tears : I like you , lads ; about your business straight ; Go , go , dispatch .
First Murderer : We will , my noble lord . Enter CLARENCE and BRAKENBURY
BRAKENBURY : Why looks your grace so heavily today ?
CLARENCE : O , I have pass 'd a miserable night , So full of ugly sights , of ghastly dreams , That , as I am a Christian faithful man , I would not spend another such a night , Though ' twere to buy a world of happy days , So full of dismal terror was the time !
BRAKENBURY : What was your dream ? I long to hear you tell it .
CLARENCE : Methoughts that I had broken from the Tower , And was embark 'd to cross to Burgundy ; And , in my company , my brother Gloucester ; Who from my cabin tempted me to walk Upon the hatches : thence we looked toward England , And cited up a thousand fearful times , During the wars of York and Lancaster That had befall 'n us . As we paced along Upon the giddy footing of the hatches , Methought that Gloucester stumbled ; and , in falling , Struck me , that thought to stay him , overboard , Into the tumbling billows of the main . Lord , Lord ! methought , what pain it was to drown ! What dreadful noise of waters in mine ears ! What ugly sights of death within mine eyes ! Methought I saw a thousand fearful wrecks ; Ten thousand men that fishes gnaw 'd upon ; Wedges of gold , great anchors , heaps of pearl , Inestimable stones , unvalued jewels , All scatter 'd in the bottom of the sea : Some lay in dead men 's skulls ; and , in those holes Where eyes did once inhabit , there were crept , As ' twere in scorn of eyes , reflecting gems , Which woo 'd the slimy bottom of the deep , And mock 'd the dead bones that lay scatter 'd by .
BRAKENBURY : Had you such leisure in the time of death To gaze upon the secrets of the deep ?
CLARENCE : Methought I had ; and often did I strive To yield the ghost : but still the envious flood Kept in my soul , and would not let it forth To seek the empty , vast and wandering air ; But smother 'd it within my panting bulk , Which almost burst to belch it in the sea .
BRAKENBURY : Awaked you not with this sore agony ?
