DUCHESS OF YORK : I am their fathers mother ; I will see them .
LADY ANNE : Their aunt I am in law , in love their mother : Then bring me to their sights ; I 'll bear thy blame And take thy office from thee , on my peril .
BRAKENBURY : No , madam , no ; I may not leave it so : I am bound by oath , and therefore pardon me . Exit Enter LORD STANLEY
LORD STANLEY : Let me but meet you , ladies , one hour hence , And I 'll salute your grace of York as mother , And reverend looker on , of two fair queens . To LADY ANNE Come , madam , you must straight to Westminster , There to be crowned Richard 's royal queen .
QUEEN ELIZABETH : O , cut my lace in sunder , that my pent heart May have some scope to beat , or else I swoon With this dead-killing news !
LADY ANNE : Despiteful tidings ! O unpleasing news !
DORSET : Be of good cheer : mother , how fares your grace ?
QUEEN ELIZABETH : O Dorset , speak not to me , get thee hence ! Death and destruction dog thee at the heels ; Thy mother 's name is ominous to children . If thou wilt outstrip death , go cross the seas , And live with Richmond , from the reach of hell Go , hie thee , hie thee from this slaughter-house , Lest thou increase the number of the dead ; And make me die the thrall of Margaret 's curse , Nor mother , wife , nor England 's counted queen .
LORD STANLEY : Full of wise care is this your counsel , madam . Take all the swift advantage of the hours ; You shall have letters from me to my son To meet you on the way , and welcome you . Be not ta 'en tardy by unwise delay .
DUCHESS OF YORK : O ill-dispersing wind of misery ! O my accursed womb , the bed of death ! A cockatrice hast thou hatch 'd to the world , Whose unavoided eye is murderous .
LORD STANLEY : Come , madam , come ; I in all haste was sent .
LADY ANNE : And I in all unwillingness will go . I would to God that the inclusive verge Of golden metal that must round my brow Were red-hot steel , to sear me to the brain ! Anointed let me be with deadly venom , And die , ere men can say , God save the queen !
QUEEN ELIZABETH : Go , go , poor soul , I envy not thy glory To feed my humour , wish thyself no harm .
LADY ANNE : No ! why ? When he that is my husband now Came to me , as I follow 'd Henry 's corse , When scarce the blood was well wash 'd from his hands Which issued from my other angel husband And that dead saint which then I weeping follow 'd ; O , when , I say , I look 'd on Richard 's face , This was my wish : ' Be thou , ' quoth I , ' accursed , For making me , so young , so old a widow ! And , when thou wed 'st , let sorrow haunt thy bed ; And be thy wife--if any be so mad-- As miserable by the life of thee As thou hast made me by my dear lord 's death ! Lo , ere I can repeat this curse again , Even in so short a space , my woman 's heart Grossly grew captive to his honey words And proved the subject of my own soul 's curse , Which ever since hath kept my eyes from rest ; For never yet one hour in his bed Have I enjoy 'd the golden dew of sleep , But have been waked by his timorous dreams . Besides , he hates me for my father Warwick ; And will , no doubt , shortly be rid of me .
QUEEN ELIZABETH : Poor heart , adieu ! I pity thy complaining .
LADY ANNE : No more than from my soul I mourn for yours .
QUEEN ELIZABETH : Farewell , thou woful welcomer of glory !
