BUCKINGHAM : Will not King Richard let me speak with him ?
Sheriff : No , my good lord ; therefore be patient .
BUCKINGHAM : Hastings , and Edward 's children , Rivers , Grey , Holy King Henry , and thy fair son Edward , Vaughan , and all that have miscarried By underhand corrupted foul injustice , If that your moody discontented souls Do through the clouds behold this present hour , Even for revenge mock my destruction ! This is All-Souls ' day , fellows , is it not ?
Sheriff : It is , my lord .
BUCKINGHAM : Why , then All-Souls ' day is my body 's doomsday . This is the day that , in King Edward 's time , I wish 't might fall on me , when I was found False to his children or his wife 's allies This is the day wherein I wish 'd to fall By the false faith of him I trusted most ; This , this All-Souls ' day to my fearful soul Is the determined respite of my wrongs : That high All-Seer that I dallied with Hath turn 'd my feigned prayer on my head And given in earnest what I begg 'd in jest . Thus doth he force the swords of wicked men To turn their own points on their masters ' bosoms : Now Margaret 's curse is fallen upon my head ; ' When he , ' quoth she , ' shall split thy heart with sorrow , Remember Margaret was a prophetess . ' Come , sirs , convey me to the block of shame ; Wrong hath but wrong , and blame the due of blame . Enter RICHMOND , OXFORD , BLUNT , HERBERT , and others , with drum and colours
RICHMOND : Fellows in arms , and my most loving friends , Bruised underneath the yoke of tyranny , Thus far into the bowels of the land Have we march 'd on without impediment ; And here receive we from our father Stanley Lines of fair comfort and encouragement . The wretched , bloody , and usurping boar , That spoil 'd your summer fields and fruitful vines , Swills your warm blood like wash , and makes his trough In your embowell 'd bosoms , this foul swine Lies now even in the centre of this isle , Near to the town of Leicester , as we learn From Tamworth thither is but one day 's march . In God 's name , cheerly on , courageous friends , To reap the harvest of perpetual peace By this one bloody trial of sharp war .
OXFORD : Every man 's conscience is a thousand swords , To fight against that bloody homicide .
HERBERT : I doubt not but his friends will fly to us .
BLUNT : He hath no friends but who are friends for fear . Which in his greatest need will shrink from him .
RICHMOND : All for our vantage . Then , in God 's name , march : True hope is swift , and flies with swallow 's wings : Kings it makes gods , and meaner creatures kings . Enter KING RICHARD III in arms , with NORFOLK , SURREY , and others
KING RICHARD III : Here pitch our tents , even here in Bosworth field . My Lord of Surrey , why look you so sad ?
SURREY : My heart is ten times lighter than my looks .
KING RICHARD III : My Lord of Norfolk , --
NORFOLK : Here , most gracious liege .
KING RICHARD III : Norfolk , we must have knocks ; ha ! must we not ?
NORFOLK : We must both give and take , my gracious lord .
KING RICHARD III : Up with my tent there ! here will I lie tonight ; But where to-morrow ? Well , all 's one for that . Who hath descried the number of the foe ?
NORFOLK : Six or seven thousand is their utmost power .
