HASTINGS : How ! wear the garland ! dost thou mean the crown ?
CATESBY : Ay , my good lord .
HASTINGS : I 'll have this crown of mine cut from my shoulders Ere I will see the crown so foul misplaced . But canst thou guess that he doth aim at it ?
CATESBY : Ay , on my life ; and hopes to find forward Upon his party for the gain thereof : And thereupon he sends you this good news , That this same very day your enemies , The kindred of the queen , must die at Pomfret .
HASTINGS : Indeed , I am no mourner for that news , Because they have been still mine enemies : But , that I 'll give my voice on Richard 's side , To bar my master 's heirs in true descent , God knows I will not do it , to the death .
CATESBY : God keep your lordship in that gracious mind !
HASTINGS : But I shall laugh at this a twelve-month hence , That they who brought me in my master 's hate I live to look upon their tragedy . I tell thee , Catesby--
CATESBY : What , my lord ?
HASTINGS : Ere a fortnight make me elder , I 'll send some packing that yet think not on it .
CATESBY : ' Tis a vile thing to die , my gracious lord , When men are unprepared and look not for it .
HASTINGS : O monstrous , monstrous ! and so falls it out With Rivers , Vaughan , Grey : and so ' twill do With some men else , who think themselves as safe As thou and I ; who , as thou know 'st , are dear To princely Richard and to Buckingham .
CATESBY : The princes both make high account of you ; Aside For they account his head upon the bridge .
HASTINGS : I know they do ; and I have well deserved it . Enter STANLEY Come on , come on ; where is your boar-spear , man ? Fear you the boar , and go so unprovided ?
STANLEY : My lord , good morrow ; good morrow , Catesby : You may jest on , but , by the holy rood , I do not like these several councils , I.
HASTINGS : My lord , I hold my life as dear as you do yours ; And never in my life , I do protest , Was it more precious to me than ' tis now : Think you , but that I know our state secure , I would be so triumphant as I am ?
STANLEY : The lords at Pomfret , when they rode from London , Were jocund , and supposed their state was sure , And they indeed had no cause to mistrust ; But yet , you see how soon the day o 'ercast . This sudden stag of rancour I misdoubt : Pray God , I say , I prove a needless coward ! What , shall we toward the Tower ? the day is spent .
HASTINGS : Come , come , have with you . Wot you what , my lord ? To-day the lords you talk of are beheaded .
LORD STANLEY : They , for their truth , might better wear their heads Than some that have accused them wear their hats . But come , my lord , let us away . Enter a Pursuivant
HASTINGS : Go on before ; I 'll talk with this good fellow . How now , sirrah ! how goes the world with thee ?
Pursuivant : The better that your lordship please to ask .
HASTINGS : I tell thee , man , ' tis better with me now Than when I met thee last where now we meet : Then was I going prisoner to the Tower , By the suggestion of the queen 's allies ; But now , I tell thee--keep it to thyself-- This day those enemies are put to death , And I in better state than e 'er I was .
Pursuivant : God hold it , to your honour 's good content !
HASTINGS : Gramercy , fellow : there , drink that for me . Throws him his purse
Pursuivant : God save your lordship ! Exit Enter a Priest
