GLOUCESTER : Bid me farewell .
LADY ANNE : ' Tis more than you deserve ; But since you teach me how to flatter you , Imagine I have said farewell already .
GLOUCESTER : Sirs , take up the corse .
GENTLEMEN : Towards Chertsey , noble lord ?
GLOUCESTER : No , to White-Friars ; there attend my coining . Was ever woman in this humour woo 'd ? Was ever woman in this humour won ? I 'll have her ; but I will not keep her long . What ! I , that kill 'd her husband and his father , To take her in her heart 's extremest hate , With curses in her mouth , tears in her eyes , The bleeding witness of her hatred by ; Having God , her conscience , and these bars against me , And I nothing to back my suit at all , But the plain devil and dissembling looks , And yet to win her , all the world to nothing ! Ha ! Hath she forgot already that brave prince , Edward , her lord , whom I , some three months since , Stabb 'd in my angry mood at Tewksbury ? A sweeter and a lovelier gentleman , Framed in the prodigality of nature , Young , valiant , wise , and , no doubt , right royal , The spacious world cannot again afford And will she yet debase her eyes on me , That cropp 'd the golden prime of this sweet prince , And made her widow to a woful bed ? On me , whose all not equals Edward 's moiety ? On me , that halt and am unshapen thus ? My dukedom to a beggarly denier , I do mistake my person all this while : Upon my life , she finds , although I cannot , Myself to be a marvellous proper man . I 'll be at charges for a looking-glass , And entertain some score or two of tailors , To study fashions to adorn my body : Since I am crept in favour with myself , Will maintain it with some little cost . But first I 'll turn yon fellow in his grave ; And then return lamenting to my love . Shine out , fair sun , till I have bought a glass , That I may see my shadow as I pass . Exit Enter QUEEN ELIZABETH , RIVERS , and GREY
RIVERS : Have patience , madam : there 's no doubt his majesty Will soon recover his accustom 'd health .
GREY : In that you brook it in , it makes him worse : Therefore , for God 's sake , entertain good comfort , And cheer his grace with quick and merry words .
QUEEN ELIZABETH : If he were dead , what would betide of me ?
RIVERS : No other harm but loss of such a lord .
QUEEN ELIZABETH : The loss of such a lord includes all harm .
GREY : The heavens have bless 'd you with a goodly son , To be your comforter when he is gone .
QUEEN ELIZABETH : Oh , he is young and his minority Is put unto the trust of Richard Gloucester , A man that loves not me , nor none of you .
RIVERS : Is it concluded that he shall be protector ?
QUEEN ELIZABETH : It is determined , not concluded yet : But so it must be , if the king miscarry . Enter BUCKINGHAM and DERBY
GREY : Here come the lords of Buckingham and Derby .
BUCKINGHAM : Good time of day unto your royal grace !
DERBY : God make your majesty joyful as you have been !
QUEEN ELIZABETH : The Countess Richmond , good my Lord of Derby . To your good prayers will scarcely say amen . Yet , Derby , notwithstanding she 's your wife , And loves not me , be you , good lord , assured I hate not you for her proud arrogance .
DERBY : I do beseech you , either not believe The envious slanders of her false accusers ; Or , if she be accused in true report , Bear with her weakness , which , I think proceeds From wayward sickness , and no grounded malice .
RIVERS : Saw you the king to-day , my Lord of Derby ?
