KING RICHARD III : Give me another horse : bind up my wounds . Have mercy , Jesu ! --Soft ! I did but dream . O coward conscience , how dost thou afflict me ! The lights burn blue . It is now dead midnight . Cold fearful drops stand on my trembling flesh . What do I fear ? myself ? there 's none else by : Richard loves Richard ; that is , I am I. Is there a murderer here ? No . Yes , I am : Then fly . What , from myself ? Great reason why : Lest I revenge . What , myself upon myself ? Alack . I love myself . Wherefore ? for any good That I myself have done unto myself ? O , no ! alas , I rather hate myself For hateful deeds committed by myself ! I am a villain : yet I lie . I am not . Fool , of thyself speak well : fool , do not flatter . My conscience hath a thousand several tongues , And every tongue brings in a several tale , And every tale condemns me for a villain . Perjury , perjury , in the high 'st degree Murder , stem murder , in the direst degree ; All several sins , all used in each degree , Throng to the bar , crying all , Guilty ! guilty ! I shall despair . There is no creature loves me ; And if I die , no soul shall pity me : Nay , wherefore should they , since that I myself Find in myself no pity to myself ? Methought the souls of all that I had murder 'd Came to my tent ; and every one did threat To-morrow 's vengeance on the head of Richard . Enter RATCLIFF
RATCLIFF : My lord !
KING RICHARD III : ' Zounds ! who is there ?
RATCLIFF : Ratcliff , my lord ; ' tis I. The early village-cock Hath twice done salutation to the morn ; Your friends are up , and buckle on their armour .
KING RICHARD III : O Ratcliff , I have dream 'd a fearful dream ! What thinkest thou , will our friends prove all true ?
RATCLIFF : No doubt , my lord .
KING RICHARD III : O Ratcliff , I fear , I fear , --
RATCLIFF : Nay , good my lord , be not afraid of shadows .
KING RICHARD III : By the apostle Paul , shadows to-night Have struck more terror to the soul of Richard Than can the substance of ten thousand soldiers Armed in proof , and led by shallow Richmond . It is not yet near day . Come , go with me ; Under our tents I 'll play the eaves-dropper , To see if any mean to shrink from me . Enter the Lords to RICHMOND , sitting in his tent
LORDS : Good morrow , Richmond !
RICHMOND : Cry mercy , lords and watchful gentlemen , That you have ta 'en a tardy sluggard here .
LORDS : How have you slept , my lord ?
RICHMOND : The sweetest sleep , and fairest-boding dreams That ever enter 'd in a drowsy head , Have I since your departure had , my lords . Methought their souls , whose bodies Richard murder 'd , Came to my tent , and cried on victory : I promise you , my soul is very jocund In the remembrance of so fair a dream . How far into the morning is it , lords ?
LORDS : Upon the stroke of four .
