BRAKENBURY : I beseech your graces both to pardon me ; His majesty hath straitly given in charge That no man shall have private conference , Of what degree soever , with his brother .
GLOUCESTER : Even so ; an 't please your worship , Brakenbury , You may partake of any thing we say : We speak no treason , man : we say the king Is wise and virtuous , and his noble queen Well struck in years , fair , and not jealous ; We say that Shore 's wife hath a pretty foot , A cherry lip , a bonny eye , a passing pleasing tongue ; And that the queen 's kindred are made gentle-folks : How say you sir ? Can you deny all this ?
BRAKENBURY : With this , my lord , myself have nought to do .
GLOUCESTER : Naught to do with mistress Shore ! I tell thee , fellow , He that doth naught with her , excepting one , Were best he do it secretly , alone .
BRAKENBURY : What one , my lord ?
GLOUCESTER : Her husband , knave : wouldst thou betray me ?
BRAKENBURY : I beseech your grace to pardon me , and withal Forbear your conference with the noble duke .
CLARENCE : We know thy charge , Brakenbury , and will obey .
GLOUCESTER : We are the queen 's abjects , and must obey . Brother , farewell : I will unto the king ; And whatsoever you will employ me in , Were it to call King Edward 's widow sister , I will perform it to enfranchise you . Meantime , this deep disgrace in brotherhood Touches me deeper than you can imagine .
CLARENCE : I know it pleaseth neither of us well .
GLOUCESTER : Well , your imprisonment shall not be long ; Meantime , have patience .
CLARENCE : I must perforce . Farewell .
GLOUCESTER : Go , tread the path that thou shalt ne 'er return . Simple , plain Clarence ! I do love thee so , That I will shortly send thy soul to heaven , If heaven will take the present at our hands . But who comes here ? the new-deliver 'd Hastings ? Enter HASTINGS
HASTINGS : Good time of day unto my gracious lord !
GLOUCESTER : As much unto my good lord chamberlain ! Well are you welcome to the open air . How hath your lordship brook 'd imprisonment ?
HASTINGS : With patience , noble lord , as prisoners must : But I shall live , my lord , to give them thanks That were the cause of my imprisonment .
GLOUCESTER : No doubt , no doubt ; and so shall Clarence too ; For they that were your enemies are his , And have prevail 'd as much on him as you .
HASTINGS : More pity that the eagle should be mew 'd , While kites and buzzards prey at liberty .
GLOUCESTER : What news abroad ?
HASTINGS : No news so bad abroad as this at home ; The King is sickly , weak and melancholy , And his physicians fear him mightily .
GLOUCESTER : Now , by Saint Paul , this news is bad indeed . O , he hath kept an evil diet long , And overmuch consumed his royal person : ' Tis very grievous to be thought upon . What , is he in his bed ?
HASTINGS : He is .
