OF SYRACUSE : Go hie thee presently , post to the road : An if the wind blow any way from shore , I will not harbour in this town to-night : If any bark put forth , come to the mart , Where I will walk till thou return to me . If every one knows us and we know none , ' Tis time , I think , to trudge , pack and be gone .
DROMIO OF SYRACUSE : As from a bear a man would run for life , So fly I from her that would be my wife . Exit ANTIPHOLUS
OF SYRACUSE : There 's none but witches do inhabit here ; And therefore ' tis high time that I were hence . She that doth call me husband , even my soul Doth for a wife abhor . But her fair sister , Possess 'd with such a gentle sovereign grace , Of such enchanting presence and discourse , Hath almost made me traitor to myself : But , lest myself be guilty to self-wrong , I 'll stop mine ears against the mermaid 's song . Enter ANGELO with the chain
ANGELO : Master Antipholus , -- ANTIPHOLUS
OF SYRACUSE : Ay , that 's my name .
ANGELO : I know it well , sir , lo , here is the chain . I thought to have ta 'en you at the Porpentine : The chain unfinish 'd made me stay thus long . ANTIPHOLUS
OF SYRACUSE : What is your will that I shall do with this ?
ANGELO : What please yourself , sir : I have made it for you . ANTIPHOLUS
OF SYRACUSE : Made it for me , sir ! I bespoke it not .
ANGELO : Not once , nor twice , but twenty times you have . Go home with it and please your wife withal ; And soon at supper-time I 'll visit you And then receive my money for the chain . ANTIPHOLUS
OF SYRACUSE : I pray you , sir , receive the money now , For fear you ne 'er see chain nor money more .
ANGELO : You are a merry man , sir : fare you well . Exit ANTIPHOLUS
OF SYRACUSE : What I should think of this , I cannot tell : But this I think , there 's no man is so vain That would refuse so fair an offer 'd chain . I see a man here needs not live by shifts , When in the streets he meets such golden gifts . I 'll to the mart , and there for Dromio stay If any ship put out , then straight away . Exit Enter Second Merchant , ANGELO , and an Officer
Second Merchant : You know since Pentecost the sum is due , And since I have not much importuned you ; Nor now I had not , but that I am bound To Persia , and want guilders for my voyage : Therefore make present satisfaction , Or I 'll attach you by this officer .
ANGELO : Even just the sum that I do owe to you Is growing to me by Antipholus , And in the instant that I met with you He had of me a chain : at five o 'clock I shall receive the money for the same . Pleaseth you walk with me down to his house , I will discharge my bond and thank you too . Enter ANTIPHOLUS of Ephesus and DROMIO of Ephesus from the courtezan 's
Officer : That labour may you save : see where he comes . ANTIPHOLUS
OF EPHESUS : While I go to the goldsmith 's house , go thou And buy a rope 's end : that will I bestow Among my wife and her confederates , For locking me out of my doors by day . But , soft ! I see the goldsmith . Get thee gone ; Buy thou a rope and bring it home to me .
DROMIO OF EPHESUS : I buy a thousand pound a year : I buy a rope . Exit ANTIPHOLUS
OF EPHESUS : A man is well holp up that trusts to you : I promised your presence and the chain ; But neither chain nor goldsmith came to me . Belike you thought our love would last too long , If it were chain 'd together , and therefore came not .
