OF EPHESUS : Do so . This jest shall cost me some expense . Enter LUCIANA and ANTIPHOLUS of Syracuse
LUCIANA : And may it be that you have quite forgot A husband 's office ? shall , Antipholus . Even in the spring of love , thy love-springs rot ? Shall love , in building , grow so ruinous ? If you did wed my sister for her wealth , Then for her wealth 's sake use her with more kindness : Or if you like elsewhere , do it by stealth ; Muffle your false love with some show of blindness : Let not my sister read it in your eye ; Be not thy tongue thy own shame 's orator ; Look sweet , be fair , become disloyalty ; Apparel vice like virtue 's harbinger ; Bear a fair presence , though your heart be tainted ; Teach sin the carriage of a holy saint ; Be secret-false : what need she be acquainted ? What simple thief brags of his own attaint ? ' Tis double wrong , to truant with your bed And let her read it in thy looks at board : Shame hath a bastard fame , well managed ; Ill d eeds are doubled with an evil word . Alas , poor women ! make us but believe , Being compact of credit , that you love us ; Though others have the arm , show us the sleeve ; We in your motion turn and you may move us . Then , gentle brother , get you in again ; Comfort my sister , cheer her , call her wife : ' Tis holy sport to be a little vain , When the sweet breath of flattery conquers strife . ANTIPHOLUS
OF SYRACUSE : Sweet mistress--what your name is else , I know not , Nor by what wonder you do hit of mine , -- Less in your knowledge and your grace you show not Than our earth 's wonder , more than earth divine . Teach me , dear creature , how to think and speak ; Lay open to my earthy-gross conceit , Smother 'd in errors , feeble , shallow , weak , The folded meaning of your words ' deceit . Against my soul 's pure truth why labour you To make it wander in an unknown field ? Are you a god ? would you create me new ? Transform me then , and to your power I 'll yield . But if that I am I , then well I know Your weeping sister is no wife of mine , Nor to her bed no homage do I owe Far more , far more to you do I decline . O , train me not , sweet mermaid , with thy note , To drown me in thy sister 's flood of tears : Sing , siren , for thyself and I will dote : Spread o 'er the silver waves thy golden hairs , And as a bed I 'll take them and there lie , And in that glorious supposition think He gains by death that hath such means to die : Let Love , being light , be drowned if she sink !
LUCIANA : What , are you mad , that you do reason so ? ANTIPHOLUS
OF SYRACUSE : Not mad , but mated ; how , I do not know .
LUCIANA : It is a fault that springeth from your eye . ANTIPHOLUS
OF SYRACUSE : For gazing on your beams , fair sun , being by .
LUCIANA : Gaze where you should , and that will clear your sight . ANTIPHOLUS
OF SYRACUSE : As good to wink , sweet love , as look on night .
LUCIANA : Why call you me love ? call my sister so . ANTIPHOLUS
OF SYRACUSE : Thy sister 's sister .
LUCIANA : That 's my sister . ANTIPHOLUS
OF SYRACUSE : No ; It is thyself , mine own self 's better part , Mine eye 's clear eye , my dear heart 's dearer heart , My food , my fortune and my sweet hope 's aim , My sole earth 's heaven and my heaven 's claim .
LUCIANA : All this my sister is , or else should be . ANTIPHOLUS
