OF SYRACUSE : I will not stay to-night for all the town ; Therefore away , to get our stuff aboard . Enter Second Merchant and ANGELO
ANGELO : I am sorry , sir , that I have hinder 'd you ; But , I protest , he had the chain of me , Though most dishonestly he doth deny it .
Second Merchant : How is the man esteemed here in the city ?
ANGELO : Of very reverend reputation , sir , Of credit infinite , highly beloved , Second to none that lives here in the city : His word might bear my wealth at any time .
Second Merchant : Speak softly ; yonder , as I think , he walks . Enter ANTIPHOLUS of Syracuse and DROMIO of Syracuse
ANGELO : ' Tis so ; and that self chain about his neck Which he forswore most monstrously to have . Good sir , draw near to me , I 'll speak to him . Signior Antipholus , I wonder much That you would put me to this shame and trouble ; And , not without some scandal to yourself , With circumstance and oaths so to deny This chain which now you wear so openly : Beside the charge , the shame , imprisonment , You have done wrong to this my honest friend , Who , but for staying on our controversy , Had hoisted sail and put to sea to-day : This chain you had of me ; can you deny it ? ANTIPHOLUS
OF SYRACUSE : I think I had ; I never did deny it .
Second Merchant : Yes , that you did , sir , and forswore it too . ANTIPHOLUS
OF SYRACUSE : Who heard me to deny it or forswear it ?
Second Merchant : These ears of mine , thou know 'st did hear thee . Fie on thee , wretch ! ' tis pity that thou livest To walk where any honest man resort . ANTIPHOLUS
OF SYRACUSE : Thou art a villain to impeach me thus : I 'll prove mine honour and mine honesty Against thee presently , if thou darest stand .
Second Merchant : I dare , and do defy thee for a villain . They draw Enter ADRIANA , LUCIANA , the Courtezan , and others
ADRIANA : Hold , hurt him not , for God 's sake ! he is mad . Some get within him , take his sword away : Bind Dromio too , and bear them to my house .
DROMIO OF SYRACUSE : Run , master , run ; for God 's sake , take a house ! This is some priory . In , or we are spoil 'd ! Enter the Lady Abbess , AEMILIA
AEMELIA : Be quiet , people . Wherefore throng you hither ?
ADRIANA : To fetch my poor distracted husband hence . Let us come in , that we may bind him fast And bear him home for his recovery .
ANGELO : I knew he was not in his perfect wits .
Second Merchant : I am sorry now that I did draw on him .
AEMELIA : How long hath this possession held the man ?
ADRIANA : This week he hath been heavy , sour , sad , And much different from the man he was ; But till this afternoon his passion Ne 'er brake into extremity of rage .
AEMELIA : Hath he not lost much wealth by wreck of sea ? Buried some dear friend ? Hath not else his eye Stray 'd his affection in unlawful love ? A sin prevailing much in youthful men , Who give their eyes the liberty of gazing . Which of these sorrows is he subject to ?
ADRIANA : To none of these , except it be the last ; Namely , some love that drew him oft from home .
AEMELIA : You should for that have reprehended him .
ADRIANA : Why , so I did .
AEMELIA : Ay , but not rough enough .
ADRIANA : As roughly as my modesty would let me .
AEMELIA : Haply , in private .
ADRIANA : And in assemblies too .
AEMELIA : Ay , but not enough .
