DUKE SOLINUS : Nay , forward , old man ; do not break off so ; For we may pity , though not pardon thee .
AEGEON : O , had the gods done so , I had not now Worthily term 'd them merciless to us ! For , ere the ships could meet by twice five leagues , We were encounterd by a mighty rock ; Which being violently borne upon , Our helpful ship was splitted in the midst ; So that , in this unjust divorce of us , Fortune had left to both of us alike What to delight in , what to sorrow for . Her part , poor soul ! seeming as burdened With lesser weight but not with lesser woe , Was carried with more speed before the wind ; And in our sight they three were taken up By fishermen of Corinth , as we thought . At length , another ship had seized on us ; And , knowing whom it was their hap to save , Gave healthful welcome to their shipwreck 'd guests ; And would have reft the fishers of their prey , Had not their bark been very slow of sail ; And therefore homeward did they bend their course . Thus have you heard me sever 'd from my bliss ; That by misfortunes was my life prolong 'd , To tell sad stories of my own mishaps .
DUKE SOLINUS : And for the sake of them thou sorrowest for , Do me the favour to dilate at full What hath befall 'n of them and thee till now .
AEGEON : My youngest boy , and yet my eldest care , At eighteen years became inquisitive After his brother : and importuned me That his attendant--so his case was like , Reft of his brother , but retain 'd his name-- Might bear him company in the quest of him : Whom whilst I labour 'd of a love to see , I hazarded the loss of whom I loved . Five summers have I spent in furthest Greece , Roaming clean through the bounds of Asia , And , coasting homeward , came to Ephesus ; Hopeless to find , yet loath to leave unsought Or that or any place that harbours men . But here must end the story of my life ; And happy were I in my timely death , Could all my travels warrant me they live .
DUKE SOLINUS : Hapless AEgeon , whom the fates have mark 'd To bear the extremity of dire mishap ! Now , trust me , were it not against our laws , Against my crown , my oath , my dignity , Which princes , would they , may not disannul , My soul would sue as advocate for thee . But , though thou art adjudged to the death And passed sentence may not be recall 'd But to our honour 's great disparagement , Yet I will favour thee in what I can . Therefore , merchant , I 'll limit thee this day To seek thy life by beneficial help : Try all the friends thou hast in Ephesus ; Beg thou , or borrow , to make up the sum , And live ; if no , then thou art doom 'd to die . Gaoler , take him to thy custody .
Gaoler : I will , my lord .
AEGEON : Hopeless and helpless doth AEgeon wend , But to procrastinate his lifeless end . Enter ANTIPHOLUS of Syracuse , DROMIO of Syracuse , and First Merchant
First Merchant : Therefore give out you are of Epidamnum , Lest that your goods too soon be confiscate . This very day a Syracusian merchant Is apprehended for arrival here ; And not being able to buy out his life According to the statute of the town , Dies ere the weary sun set in the west . There is your money that I had to keep . ANTIPHOLUS
OF SYRACUSE : Go bear it to the Centaur , where we host , And stay there , Dromio , till I come to thee . Within this hour it will be dinner-time : Till that , I 'll view the manners of the town , Peruse the traders , gaze upon the buildings , And then return and sleep within mine inn , For with long travel I am stiff and weary . Get thee away .
