OF SYRACUSE : What , wilt thou flout me thus unto my face , Being forbid ? There , take you that , sir knave .
DROMIO OF EPHESUS : What mean you , sir ? for God 's sake , hold your hands ! Nay , and you will not , sir , I 'll take my heels . Exit ANTIPHOLUS
OF SYRACUSE : Upon my life , by some device or other The villain is o 'er-raught of all my money . They say this town is full of cozenage , As , nimble jugglers that deceive the eye , Dark-working sorcerers that change the mind , Soul-killing witches that deform the body , Disguised cheaters , prating mountebanks , And many such-like liberties of sin : If it prove so , I will be gone the sooner . I 'll to the Centaur , to go seek this slave : I greatly fear my money is not safe . Exit Enter ADRIANA and LUCIANA
ADRIANA : Neither my husband nor the slave return 'd , That in such haste I sent to seek his master ! Sure , Luciana , it is two o 'clock .
LUCIANA : Perhaps some merchant hath invited him , And from the mart he 's somewhere gone to dinner . Good sister , let us dine and never fret : A man is master of his liberty : Time is their master , and , when they see time , They 'll go or come : if so , be patient , sister .
ADRIANA : Why should their liberty than ours be more ?
LUCIANA : Because their business still lies out o ' door .
ADRIANA : Look , when I serve him so , he takes it ill .
LUCIANA : O , know he is the bridle of your will .
ADRIANA : There 's none but asses will be bridled so .
LUCIANA : Why , headstrong liberty is lash 'd with woe . There 's nothing situate under heaven 's eye But hath his bound , in earth , in sea , in sky : The beasts , the fishes , and the winged fowls , Are their males ' subjects and at their controls : Men , more divine , the masters of all these , Lords of the wide world and wild watery seas , Indued with intellectual sense and souls , Of more preeminence than fish and fowls , Are masters to their females , and their lords : Then let your will attend on their accords .
ADRIANA : This servitude makes you to keep unwed .
LUCIANA : Not this , but troubles of the marriage-bed .
ADRIANA : But , were you wedded , you would bear some sway .
LUCIANA : Ere I learn love , I 'll practise to obey .
ADRIANA : How if your husband start some other where ?
LUCIANA : Till he come home again , I would forbear .
ADRIANA : Patience unmoved ! no marvel though she pause ; They can be meek that have no other cause . A wretched soul , bruised with adversity , We bid be quiet when we hear it cry ; But were we burdened with like weight of pain , As much or more would we ourselves complain : So thou , that hast no unkind mate to grieve thee , With urging helpless patience wouldst relieve me , But , if thou live to see like right bereft , This fool-begg 'd patience in thee will be left .
LUCIANA : Well , I will marry one day , but to try . Here comes your man ; now is your husband nigh . Enter DROMIO of Ephesus
ADRIANA : Say , is your tardy master now at hand ?
DROMIO OF EPHESUS : Nay , he 's at two hands with me , and that my two ears can witness .
ADRIANA : Say , didst thou speak with him ? know 'st thou his mind ?
DROMIO OF EPHESUS : Ay , ay , he told his mind upon mine ear : Beshrew his hand , I scarce could understand it .
LUCIANA : Spake he so doubtfully , thou couldst not feel his meaning ?
DROMIO OF EPHESUS : Nay , he struck so plainly , I could too well feel his blows ; and withal so doubtfully that I could scarce understand them .
