OF SYRACUSE : A trusty villain , sir , that very oft , When I am dull with care and melancholy , Lightens my humour with his merry jests . What , will you walk with me about the town , And then go to my inn and dine with me ?
First Merchant : I am invited , sir , to certain merchants , Of whom I hope to make much benefit ; I crave your pardon . Soon at five o 'clock , Please you , I 'll meet with you upon the mart And afterward consort you till bed-time : My present business calls me from you now . ANTIPHOLUS
OF SYRACUSE : Farewell till then : I will go lose myself And wander up and down to view the city .
First Merchant : Sir , I commend you to your own content . Exit ANTIPHOLUS
OF SYRACUSE : He that commends me to mine own content Commends me to the thing I cannot get . I to the world am like a drop of water That in the ocean seeks another drop , Who , falling there to find his fellow forth , Unseen , inquisitive , confounds himself : So I , to find a mother and a brother , In quest of them , unhappy , lose myself . Enter DROMIO of Ephesus Here comes the almanac of my true date . What now ? how chance thou art return 'd so soon ?
DROMIO OF EPHESUS : Return 'd so soon ! rather approach 'd too late : The capon burns , the pig falls from the spit , The clock hath strucken twelve upon the bell ; My mistress made it one upon my cheek : She is so hot because the meat is cold ; The meat is cold because you come not home ; You come not home because you have no stomach ; You have no stomach having broke your fast ; But we that know what ' tis to fast and pray Are penitent for your default to-day . ANTIPHOLUS
OF SYRACUSE : Stop in your wind , sir : tell me this , I pray : Where have you left the money that I gave you ?
DROMIO OF EPHESUS : O , --sixpence , that I had o ' Wednesday last To pay the saddler for my mistress ' crupper ? The saddler had it , sir ; I kept it not . ANTIPHOLUS
OF SYRACUSE : I am not in a sportive humour now : Tell me , and dally not , where is the money ? We being strangers here , how darest thou trust So great a charge from thine own custody ?
DROMIO OF EPHESUS : I pray you , air , as you sit at dinner : I from my mistress come to you in post ; If I return , I shall be post indeed , For she will score your fault upon my pate . Methinks your maw , like mine , should be your clock , And strike you home without a messenger . ANTIPHOLUS
OF SYRACUSE : Come , Dromio , come , these jests are out of season ; Reserve them till a merrier hour than this . Where is the gold I gave in charge to thee ?
DROMIO OF EPHESUS : To me , sir ? why , you gave no gold to me . ANTIPHOLUS
OF SYRACUSE : Come on , sir knave , have done your foolishness , And tell me how thou hast disposed thy charge .
DROMIO OF EPHESUS : My charge was but to fetch you from the mart Home to your house , the Phoenix , sir , to dinner : My mistress and her sister stays for you . ANTIPHOLUS
OF SYRACUSE : In what safe place you have bestow 'd my money , Or I shall break that merry sconce of yours That stands on tricks when I am undisposed : Where is the thousand marks thou hadst of me ?
DROMIO OF EPHESUS : I have some marks of yours upon my pate , Some of my mistress ' marks upon my shoulders , But not a thousand marks between you both . If I should pay your worship those again , Perchance you will not bear them patiently . ANTIPHOLUS
OF SYRACUSE : Thy mistress ' marks ? what mistress , slave , hast thou ?
