DUKE SOLINUS : Long since thy husband served me in my wars , And I to thee engaged a prince 's word , When thou didst make him master of thy bed , To do him all the grace and good I could . Go , some of you , knock at the abbey-gate And bid the lady abbess come to me . I will determine this before I stir . Enter a Servant
Servant : O mistress , mistress , shift and save yourself ! My master and his man are both broke loose , Beaten the maids a-row and bound the doctor Whose beard they have singed off with brands of fire ; And ever , as it blazed , they threw on him Great pails of puddled mire to quench the hair : My master preaches patience to him and the while His man with scissors nicks him like a fool , And sure , unless you send some present help , Between them they will kill the conjurer .
ADRIANA : Peace , fool ! thy master and his man are here , And that is false thou dost report to us .
Servant : Mistress , upon my life , I tell you true ; I have not breathed almost since I did see it . He cries for you , and vows , if he can take you , To scorch your face and to disfigure you . Cry within Hark , hark ! I hear him , mistress. fly , be gone !
DUKE SOLINUS : Come , stand by me ; fear nothing . Guard with halberds !
ADRIANA : Ay me , it is my husband ! Witness you , That he is borne about invisible : Even now we housed him in the abbey here ; And now he 's there , past thought of human reason . Enter ANTIPHOLUS of Ephesus and DROMIO of Ephesus ANTIPHOLUS
OF EPHESUS : Justice , most gracious duke , O , grant me justice ! Even for the service that long since I did thee , When I bestrid thee in the wars and took Deep scars to save thy life ; even for the blood That then I lost for thee , now grant me justice .
AEGEON : Unless the fear of death doth make me dote , I see my son Antipholus and Dromio . ANTIPHOLUS
OF EPHESUS : Justice , sweet prince , against that woman there ! She whom thou gavest to me to be my wife , That hath abused and dishonour 'd me Even in the strength and height of injury ! Beyond imagination is the wrong That she this day hath shameless thrown on me .
DUKE SOLINUS : Discover how , and thou shalt find me just . ANTIPHOLUS
OF EPHESUS : This day , great duke , she shut the doors upon me , While she with harlots feasted in my house .
DUKE SOLINUS : A grievous fault ! Say , woman , didst thou so ?
ADRIANA : No , my good lord : myself , he and my sister To-day did dine together . So befall my soul As this is false he burdens me withal !
LUCIANA : Ne 'er may I look on day , nor sleep on night , But she tells to your highness simple truth !
ANGELO : O perjured woman ! They are both forsworn : In this the madman justly chargeth them . ANTIPHOLUS
