DROMIO OF EPHESUS : Why , mistress , sure my master is horn-mad .
ADRIANA : Horn-mad , thou villain !
DROMIO OF EPHESUS : I mean not cuckold-mad ; But , sure , he is stark mad . When I desired him to come home to dinner , He ask 'd me for a thousand marks in gold : ' ' Tis dinner-time , ' quoth I ; ' My gold ! ' quoth he ; ' Your meat doth burn , ' quoth I ; ' My gold ! ' quoth he : ' Will you come home ? ' quoth I ; ' My gold ! ' quoth he . ' Where is the thousand marks I gave thee , villain ? ' ' The pig , ' quoth I , ' is burn 'd ; ' ' My gold ! ' quoth he : ' My mistress , sir ' quoth I ; ' Hang up thy mistress ! I know not thy mistress ; out on thy mistress ! '
LUCIANA : Quoth who ?
DROMIO OF EPHESUS : Quoth my master : ' I know , ' quoth he , ' no house , no wife , no mistress . ' So that my errand , due unto my tongue , I thank him , I bare home upon my shoulders ; For , in conclusion , he did beat me there .
ADRIANA : Go back again , thou slave , and fetch him home .
DROMIO OF EPHESUS : Go back again , and be new beaten home ? For God 's sake , send some other messenger .
ADRIANA : Back , slave , or I will break thy pate across .
DROMIO OF EPHESUS : And he will bless that cross with other beating : Between you I shall have a holy head .
ADRIANA : Hence , prating peasant ! fetch thy master home .
DROMIO OF EPHESUS : Am I so round with you as you with me , That like a football you do spurn me thus ? You spurn me hence , and he will spurn me hither : If I last in this service , you must case me in leather . Exit
LUCIANA : Fie , how impatience loureth in your face !
ADRIANA : His company must do his minions grace , Whilst I at home starve for a merry look . Hath homely age the alluring beauty took From my poor cheek ? then he hath wasted it : Are my discourses dull ? barren my wit ? If voluble and sharp discourse be marr 'd , Unkindness blunts it more than marble hard : Do their gay vestments his affections bait ? That 's not my fault : he 's master of my state : What ruins are in me that can be found , By him not ruin 'd ? then is he the ground Of my defeatures . My decayed fair A sunny look of his would soon repair But , too unruly deer , he breaks the pale And feeds from home ; poor I am but his stale .
LUCIANA : Self-harming jealousy ! fie , beat it hence !
ADRIANA : Unfeeling fools can with such wrongs dispense . I know his eye doth homage otherwhere , Or else what lets it but he would be here ? Sister , you know he promised me a chain ; Would that alone , alone he would detain , So he would keep fair quarter with his bed ! I see the jewel best enamelled Will lose his beauty ; yet the gold bides still , That others touch , and often touching will Wear gold : and no man that hath a name , By falsehood and corruption doth it shame . Since that my beauty cannot please his eye , I 'll weep what 's left away , and weeping die .
LUCIANA : How many fond fools serve mad jealousy ! Enter ANTIPHOLUS of Syracuse ANTIPHOLUS
