Theseus, Hippolyta, Hermia, Lysander and Demetrius are getting married.Lysander, Hermia, Demetrius and Egeus are going to marry Hermia.Lysander and Hermia are going to Athens tomorrow night. Helena is joining them.Quince, Bottom, Robin Starveling, Tom Snug and Francis Flute are playing in the interlude before the Duke and the Duchess' wedding-day at night.Quince wants Bottom to play Pyramus. Quince and Bottom will meet tomorrow night in the palace wood. They will rehearse their parts.Fairy and Titania are arguing about Oberon. Oberon is jealous of Titania.Oberon wants to go with Puck, but Titania doesn't want to. Demetrius and Helena are following Oberon and Puck.Helena is in love with Demetrius and wants to follow him to his work. He refuses. Oberon and Puck are also in love and want Helena to follow them to their work.Lysander is looking for Hermia. Hermia wants to find a bed for them. Demetrius and Helena are chasing each other.Helena, Hermia, Lysander, Quince, Snout, Starveling, and Bottom are rehearsing a comedy of Pyramus and Thisby.Quince, Snout, Bottom, Pyramus and Thisby are going to meet by moonlight to play their play. Quince will leave the casement of the great chamber window open, so that the moon may shine in. They will rehearse their parts.Quince, Bottom, Titania, Peaseblossom, Cobweb, Moth and Mustardseed are in a wood.Titania waked and fell in love with an ass. Oberon, Puck, Hermia, Demetrius and Pyramus were rehearsing a play for great Theseus' nuptial-day.Hermia is worried about Demetrius and wants to know if he is well. Hermia wants to leave him. Oberon, Puck, Lysander and Helena are making noise to wake him up.Lysander is angry at Hermia and Demetrius for leaving her. Hermia is mad at Lysander and accuses them of conspiring against her.Lysander is in love with Helena. Demetrius is trying to convince her to leave him. Hermia is not convinced.Helena is angry at Lysander and Demetrius for flouting her wishes. Hermia is amazed and doesn't know what to say. Helena will no longer stay in Lysander's company.Puck, Demetrius, Lysander and Helena are playing a game. They are following Puck's directions.Bottom wants Mounsieur Mustardseed and Cavalery Cobweb to bring him the honey-bag. He wants to go to the barber's to have his hair cut. He would rather have a handful of dried peas.Puck, Oberon, Titania, Hermia, Egeus, Hippolyta, Demetrius, Helena, and Hermia are discussing the events of the night.They are in the temple. Demetrius, Hermia, Helena, Lyssander, Quince, Flute, Snug and Starveling are there. The Duke is coming from the temple and they follow him.Quince, Bottom, Lyssander, Philostrate, Hippolyta, Demetrius, Herminia, and Helena are going to meet at the palace to play a comedy.Philostrate, Theseus, Hippolyta and Lyssander are at a play in Philostrate's place. They are discussing the play.There is a mural down between the two neighbours. Pyramus and Thisby are lovers. They are going to meet at Ninny's tomb.Lysander, Demetrius, Theseus, Moonshine, Lyssander, Thisbe and Pyramus are discussing the animals that live in the moon.Moonshine and Lion are left to bury the dead. Thisbe finds her lover by starlight and ends the play. There is no epilogue.There is no such thing as a cure for cancer.