Orlando was bequeathed a thousand crowns by his father. His brother, Jaques, keeps him at home unkept and keeps him from going to work. He is the youngest son of Sir Rowland de Boys, who was Orlando's father. Oliver is Orlando'sThe old Duke is banished by his younger brother the new Duke. Three or four lords have put themselves into voluntary exile with him. Rosalind, the duke's daughter, is at the court. She is the cousin of the Duke's daughter. The new Duke lives in ArCharles is glad he came to Oliver. He will give him his payment tomorrow. Rosalind and Touchstone are mad at Fortune and want to mock her.Rosalind and Celia swear by their beards that they are knaves, whereas Touchstone and Le Beau swear by a different oath. Le Beau's son, Charles, broke three ribs when he was wrestling with the Duke's wrestler.Le Beau, Rosalind, Duke FREDERICK, Lords, Orlandi, Charles, and the princesses are going to see the wrestling.Orlando is the youngest son of Sir Rowland de Boys, Duke Frederick's enemy. Rosalind and Celia are his cousins. Rosalind fell in love with old Sir Rowland's youngest son. Duke FREDERICK wants to get Rosalind from her uncle's court.Celia and Rosalind are going to seek their uncle in the forest of Arden.Duke SENIOR wants to go and kill venison. First Lord of Amiens and Duke FREDERICK agree to do it.Adam's brother wants to burn the lodging where he used to live and cut him off. Adam has five hundred crowns he saved under his father. He invites Orlando, Rosalind, Celia, and Touchstone to join him. Rosalind and Touchstone are in love. Corin and Silvius love her. Rosalind is in love with a man. Touchstone is a sheepherder.Corin wants to sell the land to Amiens, Jaques, Amiens and others. Jaques wants Amiens to sing a song. Amiens will sing the song.Duke SENIOR can't find First Lord. Duke SENIOR wants to talk to First Lord, but First Lord has already left. First Lord's friend, Jaques, offers Duke his help.Orlando is hungry. He will not eat any more food until he is served it. Duke SENIOR will feed him.Duke SENIOR, Adam, Orlando, Duke FREDERICK, Lords, and Oliver are in the forest. Duke SENIOR welcomes them.Corin has never been to court. She is a shepherds' daughter. She and Touchstone have known each other for eight years. Rosalind will graff the tree with a medlar. Rosalind was seven of nine days out of the wonder before Celia came. Rosalind is in a forest. She is looking for her lover. She found him under a tree. He has a beard. He was dressed in a man's clothes. He had just won a wrestling match.Rosalind and Jaques are discussing the nature of Time. Rosalind is a native of the forest. Rosalind's uncle taught her how to know a man in love. Rosalind cured her suitor in this manner.Audrey is going to marry Sir Oliver Martext, the vicar of the next village. Touchstone, Jaques, Audrey, Rosalind, Celia, Corin and Sir Oliver are going to meet in the forest. Phebe and Silvius have been arguing for a year. Rosalind is mad at Phebe.Phebe and Silvius fell in love. Phebe will write a letter to the youth that spoke to her erewhile. Rosalind, Celia, and Jaques will join them.Rosalind is angry at Jaques for being a traveller. She would rather have a fool to make her merry than an experience. Rosalind and Orlando are in love with each other. Rosalind wants Orlando to marry her. Rosalind and Orlando are going to attend the Duke's dinner at two o'clock.Rosalind and Orlando are in love. Silvius, Jaques, Lords, and Foresters are going to present the deer that killed by Rosalind to the Duke.Silvius, Rosalind and Oliver are discussing Phebe's letter. They are not fond of her style of writing. She writes in a boisterous and cruel style. Celia, Oliver, Rosalind, Touchstone and Audrey are going to meet with their brother, who was rescued by his sister-in-law. They will give him a napkin stained with his blood.William is five and twenty-five years old. He is in love with Aliena. He will marry her tomorrow. Rosalind and Orlando's brother and sister are getting married tomorrow.Phebe, Orlando, Rosalind, Silvius, Ganymede, Audrey, and the Duke are going to be married tomorrow.Rosalind, Duke SENIOR, Rosalind's daughter, Phebe, and Silvius' son-in-law, Orlando, are going to meet in the ark. Touchstone and Jaques quarrel about the degrees of the lie. Duke SENIOR invites Jaques to his wedding. Duke SENIOR and Jaques DE BOYS will begin the rites in the forest.