Norfolk was in France. An untimely ague kept him in his chamber. The Duke of Buckingham is a surveyor. France has flaw'd the league, has attach'd our merchants' goods at Bourdeaux and broke the peace between the French and British. Brandon orders the sergeant to execute a warrant from the king to attach Lord Montacute, the bodies of the duke is confessor, John de la Car, and Gilbert Peck, his chancellor. King Henry Viii, Queen Katharine and Surveyor are discussing the Duke of Buckingham. Chamberlain, Lord Sands, Lord 25, Lord Sates, Lord Chamberlain, Lord 30, Lord 37, Lord 41, Lord 35, Lord Gailford, Lord 47 and Lord Harry Guildford are at a party. King Henry Viii, Chamberlain, Cardinal Wolsey, Second Gentleman, First Gentleman and Lovell are discussing the fate of the Duke of Buckingham and the cardinal. Suffolk left the king private, full of sad thoughts, troubles. The marriage with his brother's wife is too close for his conscience, and he is depressed. He wants to leave her, but can't, because he has a conscience. Anne, Old Lady, Chamberlain, Cardinal Wolsey, Cardinal Campeius, Queen Katharine, and Scribe are in court. They are discussing the secret of their conference. Lincoln, Queen Katharine and Cardinal Wolsey are in the presence of the king. Two great cardinals are waiting for them. They want to talk to Lincoln and Gentleman. Surrey wants to be revenged on her father-in-law. Suffolk, Chamberlain, Norfolk, Cardinal Wolsey, Cromwell, King Henry Viii, and Surrey are discussing the situation involving Cardinal Campeius and the king. Cardinal Wolsey, All, Surrey, Norfolk, Cromwell, First Gentleman, Suffolk, Second Gentleman and Cromwell criticise the king and the Roman Catholic Church. First Gentleman, Second Gentleman, Gentleman, Third Gentleman, Norfolk, Lovell, Katharine, Griffith, Both, Patience, Messenger and Katharine are discussing the royal procession. Capucius, Patience, Lovell, Katharine, Denny, King Henry Viii, Suffolk and King Henry Viii are talking about the king, queen and Cromwell. Cranmer has to attend his highness' pleasure. He has to go to the Tower to do so. The chief cause concerns his grace of Canterbury. Cranmer, Garter, Norfolk, Gardiner, Chancellor, Porter, King Henry Viii and Garter are discussing the christening of the Princess Elizabeth. Cranmer tells a story about an aged princess of England. 