Norfolk and Buckingham were in France. Norfolk saw the suns of glory and the two lights of men when they met in the vale of Andren. Buckingham had an untimely illness. Norfolk is a new admirer of what he saw there.Abergavenny, Norfolk, Buckingham and Cardinal Wolf discuss the current political situation in England.Buckingham is accusing Charles the emperor of high treason. Brandon and Abergavenny will accompany him to the Tower.King Henry VIII is in a meeting with Queen Katharine, Queen Caroline, Norfolk, and the Duke of Buckingham. They are discussing the issue of taxation.King Henry VIII, Queen Katharine, Surveyor and Cardinal Wolsey are discussing the Duke of Buckingham's death.Surveyor Henry VIII lost his job as the duke's surveyor because he told his lord the monk might be deceived. King Henry VIII accuses him of being a traitor and wants him to be put on trial.Lovell, Sir Thomas Lovell, Lord Sands and Sir Henry Guildford are going to the cardinal's party. They will have a good time.Sands is a merry gamester. He had it from his father, who was mad, exceeding mad, in love, and he would kiss you twenty times with a breath. The ladies are not merry, but they will talk to each other. King Henry VIII and Queen Anne areChamberlain, Prithee, Cardinal Wolsey, King Henry VIII, Sir Thomas Bullen's daughter, The Viscount Rochford, and Sir Thomas Lovell are at the assembly. The Duke of Buckingham has been found guilty of high treason.The cardinal is the end of this. The commons hate him perniciously, but the people love him. The duke is coming with the barge.There is a rumour that the king and his wife Katharine are in trouble. First Gentleman, Second Gentleman, Norwich, Suffolk and Chamberlain believe it is Cardinal Campeius who is behind it.Chamberlain, Norfolk, Suffolk, King Henry VIII, Cardinal Wolsey and Cardinal Campeius are having a private conference.King Henry VIII and Queen Anne will meet at Black-Friars to discuss the appointment of Gardiner as their new secretary.Anne would not be a queen for all the riches under heaven, but she would be a duchess for a thousand pounds a year for pure respect. Old Lady has been a courtier for 16 years. She would be the Marchioness of Pembroke.King Henry VIII, Cardinal WOLSEY, Cardinal CAMPEIUS and Queen Katharine are in the court.Cardinal WOLSEY wants the royal session to proceed. Queen Katharine refuses. She curtsies to King Henry VIII and offers to leave.King Henry VIII, Kate and Cardinal Wolf disapprove of Henry VIII's new wife.King Henry VIII moved Lincoln, his Lord of Canterbury, and got his permission to make a present summons. Queen Katharine, his wife, is absent. The court is adjourned till further day.Cardinal WOLSEY and Cardinal CAMPEIUS are trying to convince Queen Katharine to put her main cause into the king's protection.Queen Katharine is unhappy with her life. Cardinal WOLSEY and Cardinal CAMPEIUS try to cheer her up.Chamberlain, Norfolk, Suffolk, Surrey and Cromwell are worried about the king's relationship with Cardinal Campeius. The king is in love with Lady Anne Bullen.Cardinal WOLSEY wants to know if he's ready to come abroad. Cromwell, Norfolk, Suffolk and King Henry VIII think he is. He's going to marry the Marchioness of Pembroke.King Henry VIII made Cardinal WOLSEY the prime minister of the state.Cardinal WOLSEY refuses to hand over the great seal that the king gave to Norfolk and Surrey.Cardinal WOLSEY is accused by Suffolk, Norfolk, Surrey and Chamberlain of many wrongdoings.Cromwell has been cured by the king. Sir Thomas More has been appointed Lord Chancellor in his place. Lady Anne was married to the king and is about to be crowned.Cromwell and Cardinal Wolsey are waiting for each other. The Duke of Suffolk, the Duke of Norfolk, the Earl of Norfolk and the Marquess of Dorset are on the list of those who claim their offices by custom of the coronation. Katharine, the princessThere was a ceremony at York-place to celebrate the coronation of the Queen. First Gentleman, Second Gentleman and Third Gentleman saw it.Cardinal Wolsey, the great child of honour, Cardinal Wolsey died. Griffith tells Katharine how he died.Katharine doesn't want to see Griffith. Griffith is an honest chronicler. Griffith and the musicians play Katharine sad and solemn music. Katharine is asleep. Griffith, Patience and Messenger enter Katharine's room. They bring her garlands. Katharine wrote a letter to Capucius. She wants him to deliver it to her lord the king. She also asks him to help her and her family.Gardiner, Thomas Lovell, Denny, Cromwell, Suffolk and King Henry VIII are discussing the state of the kingdom.Cranmer is afraid. King Henry VIII wants Cranmer to come before the council this morning and face charges. Cranmer refuses.Old Lady, King Henry VIII, Queen Elizabeth, Crummer, Chancellor, Dr. Butts and Doctor Butts are at a meeting.Cranmer is about to enter the council-table. Gardiner is waiting for him.Gardiner, Cromwell, Chancellor, Cranmer and King Henry VIII are going to the Tower.Chancellor, King HENRY VIII, Gardiner, Cranmer, the Duchess of Norfolk, and Lady Marquess Dorset are waiting for the Lord of Canterbury. Man, Garter and Porter are preparing a service for the christening of the Duke and Duchess of Norfolk.King Henry VIII is congratulating Cranmer on the birth of his daughter. Cranmer's daughter's name is Elizabeth. 