Gregory, Gregory, Sampson, and others are involved in an ancient quarrel. The quarrel is between their masters and their men. Montague wants to leave. Romeo wants to stay, but Benvolio wants to know who Romeo is in love with. Romeo is mad. He is being kept in prison, kept without his food, tormented, and unable to read. The guests are coming to his house for supper. His daughter is twelve years old. She is going to Verona to marry Paris. Romeo dreamt a dream tonight. People are arguing about the nature of love. Tybalt, Capulet and Tybalt's uncle, Montague, are arguing about Romeo, the only son of Tiberio, a Montague's great enemy. Juliet's only love sprung from his only hate. Mercutio has stolned him and taken him home to bed. Juliet wants to meet with Romeo tomorrow at 9 o'clock. Tybalt, the kinsman of old Capulet, sent a letter to his father's house. Nurse wants to know what is going on with his lady. She will come to his father's this afternoon. Nurse's head aches, her back aches and she's looking for her mother. Her mother is within, but she's not there. Tybalt, Romeo, Tybalt, Benvolio, Prince, their wives, others are involved in a fight. Tybalt, Romeo's cousin, has been killed by Romeo. Nurse, Friar Laurence, LADY Capulet and Romeo are talking about Romeo and Juliet. LADY Capulet wants her daughter, Juliet, to marry early next Thursday morning at Saint Peter is Church. Juliet will confess to her father that she loves him on Thursday next. Juliet met the youthful lord at Laurence's cell and fell in love with him. There are many guests at the party. There will be no more guests until Thursday. Capulet, Friar Laurence, Paris, and Musician are talking about their wedding day. Friar John is going to find a Franciscan friar. Friar John will bring him an iron crow. Romeo and Juliet were murdered and their bodies are buried. The people in the street cry Romeo, Some Juliet, some Paris, all run, with open outcry toward the monument. Montague's house is empty on the back of the house. Romeo is rich because of his lady. 