Sampson and Gregory are in a fight. They will fight against Montague and his men.Capulet, Lady Montague, Prince and Benvolio were involved in a civil brawl in Verona.Benvolio and Romeo are arguing about love. Romeo is in love with a woman. Benvolio wants to go out to eat with Romeo.Benvolio wants to be ruled by him. Romeo wants to forget about her. Paris and Servant want Benvolio and Romeo to keep the peace. Capulet wants to woo Paris.Romeo can read the letters and the language. There is an assembly of people coming to supper at the house of Servant's master, the great rich Capulet. Lady CAPULET wants her daughter Juliet to get married. She wants her maidservant, Juliet, to do the same. Romeo doesn't want to dance with Mercutio and Benvolio.Romeo, Mercutio, Benvolio, Susan Grindstone and Nell, Antony, and Potpan are coming to a party at Capulet's house. The party is taking place in the great chamber.Tybalt is angry at Montague. Romeo is a guest in Tybalt's house. Juliet and her mother want a word with him.Juliet wants to know if Petrucio, the son and heir of old Tiberio, is going out of the door. Benvolio is looking for Romeo. Juliet wants Romeo to renounce his name and change it to Romeo.Juliet and Romeo are in love with each other. Romeo has a night's cloak to hide himself from the sight of others. Juliet has a contract with the moon. Juliet and Romeo will see each other again.Juliet and Romeo are in love. Juliet will send Romeo a message at 9 o'clock tomorrow.Romeo has been feasting with Rosaline and her father. Friar LAURENCE and Mercutio are jealous of Romeo's love for Rosaline. Benvolio will answer a letter from Tybalt.Benvolio and Mercutio don't like the new form of communication. Romeo doesn't like it either.Nurse is looking for Peter. Benvolio and Mercutio tell her to invite him to supper. Romeo will join them.Romeo and Juliet are going to meet Paris at Friar Laurence's cell this afternoon. Paris is a nobleman from Paris. Juliet has chosen Romeo as her husband. She hasn't dined at home yet. She has left for Friar Laurence's cell. Juliet is in love with Romeo. Friar Lawrence wants Juliet to join him. Mercutio, Benvolio, Tybalt, Page, and Servants want to join them.Romeo and Mercutio are fighting in Verona streets. Tybalt stabs Romeo and flies with his followers. Benvolio, First Citizen, Prince, Montague, Lady CAPULET, Tybalt and others are involved in a brawl.Nurse and Juliet are angry at Romeo and Tybalt for killing their cousin.Nurse will bring Juliet to Tybalt's room. Romeo will be there at night to comfort her.Friar LAURENCE wants to dispute with Romeo about the affairs of his estate. Romeo is angry with his wife, Lady Juliet. Nurse, Romeo, Juliet, Friar Lawrence, Lady Capulet, Lady CAPULET, and their daughter Tybalt are discussing the wedding of their daughter on Thursday.Romeo is content. Juliet and Lady CAPULET are sad about her cousin's death. Her lady mother is coming to Juliet's chamber.Juliet wants revenge for her cousin's death. Lady CAPULET will send Romeo to an unaccustomed dram in Mantua. She will marry him next Thursday morning at Saint Peter's Church. Lady CAPULET wants Juliet to go to church on Thursday. Juliet doesn't want to go. Juliet's only child is disobedient. Juliet wants her mother to delay the marriage for a month or a week and make the bridal bed in Tybalt.Juliet is going to make a confession to her father on Thursday. Paris and Juliet are going to be married on Thursday next.Friar Laurence's daughter, Juliet, is going to marry Paris on Wednesday. He will send a friar with speed to Mantua.Juliet met the youthful lord at Laurence's cell and she is in love with him. Juliet and Lady CAPULET will go to church tomorrow.Lady CAPULET, nurse and Paris are preparing a meal for the cook.Friar LAURENCE, Lady CAPULET and Paris are going to church.Peter, First Musician and Second Musician are playing a game. Peter will give them the minstrel, the serving-creature, the dagger and the iron dagger. He will also give them Simon Catling, Hugh Rebeck and James Soundpost.Apothecary offers Romeo a dram of poison. Romeo is poor. Paris offers him flowers and a torch. Friar John sends Romeo a letter from Mantua.Romeo wants to take a ring from his lady's finger. Balthasar will not help him. Paris wants to kill Montague, who murdered his love's cousin.Friar LAURENCE and Balthasar are in the churchyard. They are looking for Romeo, who has been buried there for half an hour. First Watchman, Prince, Lady CAPULET, Montague and Friar LAURENCE are discussing the murder of Romeo and Juliet.Prince wants to know who is Romeo's man. Balthasar brought Romeo's news of Juliet's death to Prince. Montague will raise Juliet's statue in Verona.