Boatswain, Gonzalo, Alonso, Sebastian, Antonio, Ferdinand, Prospero, and others are arguing about the fate of the boat. It's been 12 years since Miranda's father was the Duke of Milan, a prince of power. Her mother was a piece of virtue. Her brother, Antonio, took over the manage of her state. Her uncle, a Neapolitan, gave her a lot of things. Prospero and Ariel will visit Caliban. Prospero has used Person 16 as a slave. Person 1 is the best speaker of his language. Person 2 wants Person 1 to follow Person 7, Sebastian, Person 9, Person 10, Person 11, Person 12, Person 13, Person 14, Person 15, Person 16 Sebastian, Adrian and Antonio are discussing the weather in Tunisia. Gonzalo wore a doublet at Antonio's daughter's wedding. Alonso and Sebastian are angry at him for marrying her. Sebastian wants to know who is the next heir of Naples. Antonio's brother's daughter is queen of Tunis and she is heir to Naples. Caliban is bringing wood in slowly. The spirits torment him and try to trick him into thinking that they are devils. He will kill them if he can recover Stephano and take him to Naples. Caliban, Stephano, Trinculo, Ferdinand, Miranda, Prospero, Ferdinand Miranda and Stephano are going to meet with a monster. Caliban is subject to a sorcerer, a tyrant, a sorcerer that cheated her of the island. Trinculo and Stephano will join her tonight. Gonzalo, Prospero, Ferdinand, Miranda, Ferdinand Miranda, Stephano, Adrian, Trinculo, Alonso, Ariel, Master, Ceres, Caliban, Antonio, Juno, Iris, Prospero0 and Prospero1 are in a Ceres, Juno, Caliban, Stephano, Trinculo, Ariel, Ferdinand, Miranda, Prospero, Ferdinand Miranda and Stephano are talking about the festival. Prospero, Ariel, Caliban, Stephano, Trinculo, and Alonso are hunting spirits. Prospero has lost his daughter. Ariel will fetch them. Miranda, Ferdinand, Alonso, Boatswain, Ariel, Caliban and Antonio are on a journey. They discuss the people and events of their travels. Alonso wants to hear the story of your life. 