The Two Noble Kinsmen are preparing a play. They are worried that the play will not live up to their expectations.Emilia, Theseus and Hippolyta are three queens whose sovereigns fell before the wrath of cruel Creon. As any of us three would do, Queen Emilia prays for her lord.All the queens are going to meet at the banks of Aulis. The wedding procession begins to exit.All but Theseus and the Queens exit from Athens. Palamon and Arcite are in Thebes.Valerius, Palamon, Arcite, Hippolyta, Emilia and Pirithous are going to Thebes to fight Creon.Pirithous and Theseus are in love with each other. Emilia and Hippolyta love each other too.Emilia, Hippolyta and Thebes are rehearsing a piece of music. It is about a maid Flavina and a man called Flavina.Prisoners to us than Death, they have all the world in their chamber. They will post to Athens fore our army.Jailer, Daughter, Palamon and Arcite were in the battle. The Duke himself came to see them privately in the night. Palamon is unmarried, Arcite is married and they are brothers-in-law.Till she for shame see what a wrong she has done to youth and nature.Emilia and Palamon are in a garden. Emilia is a maid. Palamon and Emilia are lovers. They are going to take a walk in the garden.Palamon and Arcite are in love with each other. Palamon saw her first. Arcite saw her too. Prince Palamon and Lord Arcite are in trouble. The Duke sent Prince Pirithous for Palamon. Palamon refuses to leave the Duke's company.Arcite, Palamon, Country People, Arcite, Sennois and Rycas, and the Duke's daughter are in Athens. Arcite has been banished from the kingdom. Palamon and Jailer are happy.By any means, before the ladies see us, we will perform. The Duke himself will be in person there. For I would fain enjoy him. Jailer's Daughter is preparing an observance tomorrow by the sun in Dian's wood. She has brought her prisoner to a little wood, where he will keep close to her. She will provide him with files and food. He has not thanked her for what she has done.Fresher than May, sweeter than her gold buttons on the boughs, or all the enameled knacks o ' th ' mead or garden' Palamon asks Arcite to give him a sword and an invitation to the banquet. Arcite agrees.They have made prey of him. Arcite is in the wild woods. Palamon has brought him food, wine and files.Palamon and Arcite are drinking wine. Palamon's cousin, Arcite, drinks wine. Arcite's daughter, Lord Steward's, had a love affair with a black-haired man and she made Palamon groan a month or two, or three, or tenAnd I will seek him through the world that is wide.Jailer 's Daughter came from Barbary-a. The George Alow came from the south. There is a dainty madwoman, master, schoolmaster, Theseus, Pirithous, Hippolyta, Emilia and train.There is a Morris dance taking place at the Schoolmaster's.Palamon and Arcite will fight bare-armed. Palamon will arm his cousin Prithee.Palamon and Arcite are going to a second trial. Palamon will bring his sword with him.Palamon, Arcite, Theseus, Hippolyta, Emilia, and Pirithous are in a fight. Palamon and Theseus are traitors. Arcite and Palamon are trying to kill each other.Hippolyta and Pirithous are in love with each other. Emilia and Duke Theseus are angry at them for breaking their vows.Emilia, Palamon, Pirithous and Arcite are in a quarrel. Palamon wants to take his cousin Palamon and his sister Arcite to war. Emilia and Palamon are willing to die for each other.Palamon escaped from jailer and his friend. Hippolyta, Emily and Pirithous pardoned him and gave him a large sum of money for his release.Palamon went to the wood to gather mulberries. His shackles will betray him and he will be taken. Jailer will call the maids and pay the minstrels.There are many young maids in love with Palamon. They come from all parts of the dukedom to him. He has a sister, but she will never have him.Just such another wanton Ganymede: set Jove afire with , and enforced the god :Snatch up the goodly boy and set him by him. Palamon is a dull shadow. Arcite is a changeling to him.In the first place with Arcite, Pirithous describes him as a prince. In the second place with Palamon, he shows himself to be a soldier.Pirithous, Emilia, Theseus, Hippolyta, Doctor, Jailer, Wooer, Doctor and Jailer's Daughter are playing a game.Part of her mind is disturbed. Doctor, her friend and her daughter are going to imprison her in a place where the light may be more restricted. Palamon, Arcite and their Knights enter the camp. Palamon and Arcite kneel before Mars' altar.The Earth is sick. Palamon and his Knights must glister with new fire or be extinct. Emilia is preparing a service for Diana. Doctor, Jailer, Wooer and Emilia are taking part in it.Jailer, Doctor, Wooer, Daughter, and Maid are trying to cure a girl. She's 18 years old and she's in love with the Duke's horse.He lisps in ' s neighing able to entice :A miller's mare. Doctor and Jailer will go with him. They will play at :Stool-Ball and then they will go to bed. Wooer, Hippolyta, Emilia, Pirithous, Theseus, Palamon, and others enter scene 3.The spoiling of his figure. The end of the combat.Palamon, Emilia, Hippolyta, Alcides, Palamon and his Knights are celebrating their victory.Palamon is leaving with his maid. First knight, second knight, third knight and third knight follow him. They are going to meet Pirithous.Emilia kisses Palamon. Palamon dies. Emilia takes Arcite. Arcite's body is carried out. The play ends.I dare say there are many better ways to prolong your old loves than to prolong them.