Boatswain is talking to the mariners about the weather. The weather is bad. The mariners are worried about the possibility of a storm.Miranda and Prospero have been in a cell for 12 years. Miranda's father was the Duke of Milan and she's his only daughter.Miranda believes that the King of Naples is trying to extirpate Prince Prospero and force him out of the dukedom and give him Milan with all the honours on his brother Antonio.Miranda and Prospero are on a journey. They are in a sea-storm. Ariel is on the king's ship in the deep nook of the shipwrecked island. The rest of the fleet, including Miranda, are on the other side of the island.At least two glasses of wine are needed between six and six-and-a-half and before the time be out. Ariel is moody and wants to know what she can do with her time. Prospero reminds her of the witch Sycorax, who was born in ArgierCaliban is a slave of Prospero. He makes the fire, fetchs wood and serves in offices. Prospero keeps Caliban in a hard rock and keeps the rest of the island from him.Ferdinand is sitting on a bank, weeping over the death of his father. Ariel sings Full fathom five. Miranda and Prospero are on an island. Ferdinand will free Miranda within two days.Miranda, Prospero, Ferdinand, Antonio, Sebastian, Gonzalo, and Ferdinand are in a prison.Sebastian, Antonio and Adrian are on an island. The island is uninhabitable and inaccessible, but the air is sweet and the grass is lush. They were in Tunisia at the marriage of the king's daughter Claribel to the king of Tunis.Francisco, Sebastian, Antonio, Antonio and Alonso are talking about the death of their son.Antonio, Gonzalo, Sebastian, Alonso, Alonso, Sebastian and Antonio sleep. Sebastian is awake and wants to know who is going to be the next heir of Naples. Antonio's daughter is queen of Tunis and heir of Naples. Sebastian's brother, Prospero, is her brother-in-law. Sebastian, Antonio, Alonso and Gonzalo are in a dangerous situation. Sebastian will come to Milan.Gonzalo, Alonso, Ariel, Caliban, Trinculo, Stephano, the boatman, the gunner and his mate, Meg and Marian and Margery. Stephano is trying to recover Trinculo from an ague. He will bring him to Naples with wine.Caliban, Trinculo, Stephano, Miranda, Ferdinand and Prisculo are going to meet.Miranda and Ferdinand are in love with each other. Miranda wants Ferdinand to marry her. Ferdinand would rather break his bones than be with Miranda. Miranda and Ferdinand will meet half an hour later.Stephano, Trinculo and Caliban are on an island. There are only three of them on the island. Stephano wants to be treated as a servant-monster. Caliban claims he got the island by sorcery. Stephano, Trinculo, Ariel and Caliban are arguing about a man. Stephano wants to kill him, but first he needs to possess his books.Stephano, Trinculo, Antonio, GONZALO, Sebastian, and Prospero are going to meet.Prospero, Ariel, Ferdinand, Antonio, and Maria are in trouble. They are trying to escape from Prospero.Ariel is going to give birth. Juno and Ceres are going to celebrate it with her.Prospero, Miranda, Ariel, Stephenano, Trinculo, and Miranda are going to meet with Caliban.Stephano, Trinculo, Caliban, Prospero, Stephenano, Ariel, and Prospero are having a party.Ariel's spirit would be stronger than Prospero's if she were human. Ariel will fetch Prospero and his companions.Prospero, Ariel, Alonso, Sebastian, Antonio, and Gonzalo are on the isle. Prospero has lost his dukedom. Miranda, Ferdinand, Sebastian, Alonso, Prospero, Gonzalo, Ariel and Boatswain are on Arriel's ship. Miranda and Ferdinand are playing a game of fair play. Ferdinand and Miranda have known each other for three hours. Ferdinand's daughter is the daughter ofCaliban, Stephano, Trinculo and Stephano have stolen Prospero's and Alonso's clothes. They are driving to ARIEL in their stolen clothes. Alonso wants to hear the story of your life.