Poet and Painter haven't seen each other for a long time. Painter saw them speak together. Painter has seen Poet's work. Painter likes it.Painter, Poet, Lord Timon, LUCILIUS and a Messenger from VENTIDIUS discuss art and politics.Timon, Lucilius, Poet, Painter and Apemantus are meeting. They are going to have a dinner tomorrow.Timon, Apemantus, Alcibiades, First Lord, Second Lord, ALCIBIADES, Flavius, and Ventidius are going to Lord Timon's feast.Timon, Apemantus, Ventidius and Captain Alcibiades are at Timon's ceremony.Timon has many good friends. He has often wished to be richer so that he might be closer to his friends. Flavius, Timon, All Ladies, Servant, First Lord and Second Lord are waiting for Flavius and Timon. Lord Lucullus invites Timon and his company to hunt with him tomorrow.Alcibiades, Lord Timon, Apemantus and Senator are in a meeting. Caphis, Varro, Isidore, Timon, Apemantus, Flavius, and others are in dispute over unpaid debts.Apemantus will go with Fool to Lord Timon's. Timon and All Servants serve three usurers. Flavius and Timon have a problem with their debts. Timon wants to borrow fifty talents from Flaminius, Servilius, Ventidius and Lucullus. Flavius, Timon's friends, refuse.Lucullus, Flaminius and First Stranger are at Lord Timon's house in Athens. One of his men is coming to get a gift from Servant. Lucullus offers to pay for it.Lucilius was denied the use of Lord Timon by his father-in-law. Sempronius is angry at his lord because he sent three gifts to him for money. Ventidius, Lucullus, Lucilius, Philotus, Titus and Hortensius are angry at him too. They are waiting for their lord to come out of VarroHortensius, Flavius, Lucilius, Timon and Varro are waiting for Lord Timon to pay their debts.Timon, Flavius, Hortensius, Lucius, Lucullus, Sempronius, and Lucius are going to join Timon and his friends for dinner.Alcibiades served at Lacedaemon and Byzantium. He has done a fair service for his lords. He is a troublemaker, a sworn rioter and a criminal. He killed many people in the last conflict and made many wounds. He owes the law hisAlcibiades is banished from Athens.Lord Timon is mad. He gave a jewel to Lord Timon the other day and now he beat it out of his hat with a club. He has lost his gown. There is no such thing as a cure for cancer.Timon is Misanthropos, a man who hates mankind. Alcibiades is Timon's friend. Alcibiades will take the gold that Timon has given him.Timon is angry at Apemantus for flattering him and making fun of him.Timon and Apemantus discuss the nature of human nature.Timon is tired of the false world and is ready to die. Banditti, Apemantus, Timon and the others are going to make an assay on him.Flavius and Timon are arguing about the nature of human relationships.Flavius, Timon, Poet and Painter are visiting Timon in his cave. Timon is watching them from his cave where he lives. He is full of gold. He enriched poor straggling soldiers with a great quantity and gave a lot of money to his stewPainter and Timon come to offer Timon their service. Timon claims to have gold and invites Painter and Poet to his cave.The senators of Athens greet Timon and ask him to come back to Athens. Timon will go to Athens and take the captainship. He will teach Alcibiades how to prevent wild animals from attacking his countrymen.Flavius is looking for Timon. Timon has done his reign and retired to his cave. First Senator, Second Senator, Messenger and a Soldier are looking for him. Alcibiades is trying to convince Timon to come back to Athens.Alcibiades, First Senator and Second Senator are discussing the war. They discuss how to deal with people who have offended them.