ARVIRAGUS : Hail , heaven !
BELARIUS : Now for our mountain sport : up to yond hill ; Your legs are young ; I 'll tread these flats . Consider , When you above perceive me like a crow , That it is place which lessens and sets off ; And you may then revolve what tales I have told you Of courts , of princes , of the tricks in war : This service is not service , so being done , But being so allow 'd : to apprehend thus , Draws us a profit from all things we see ; And often , to our comfort , shall we find The sharded beetle in a safer hold Than is the full-wing 'd eagle . O , this life Is nobler than attending for a cheque , Richer than doing nothing for a bauble , Prouder than rustling in unpaid-for silk : Such gain the cap of him that makes ' em fine , Yet keeps his book uncross 'd : no life to ours .
GUIDERIUS : Out of your proof you speak : we , poor unfledged , Have never wing 'd from view o ' the nest , nor know not What air 's from home . Haply this life is best , If quiet life be best ; sweeter to you That have a sharper known ; well corresponding With your stiff age : but unto us it is A cell of ignorance ; travelling a-bed ; A prison for a debtor , that not dares To stride a limit .
ARVIRAGUS : What should we speak of When we are old as you ? when we shall hear The rain and wind beat dark December , how , In this our pinching cave , shall we discourse The freezing hours away ? We have seen nothing ; We are beastly , subtle as the fox for prey , Like warlike as the wolf for what we eat ; Our valour is to chase what flies ; our cage We make a quire , as doth the prison 'd bird , And sing our bondage freely .
BELARIUS : How you speak ! Did you but know the city 's usuries And felt them knowingly ; the art o ' the court As hard to leave as keep ; whose top to climb Is certain falling , or so slippery that The fear 's as bad as falling ; the toil o ' the war , A pain that only seems to seek out danger I ' the name of fame and honour ; which dies i ' the search , And hath as oft a slanderous epitaph As record of fair act ; nay , many times , Doth ill deserve by doing well ; what 's worse , Must court 'sy at the censure : --O boys , this story The world may read in me : my body 's mark 'd With Roman swords , and my report was once First with the best of note : Cymbeline loved me , And when a soldier was the theme , my name Was not far off : then was I as a tree Whose boughs did bend with fruit : but in one night , A storm or robbery , call it what you will , Shook down my mellow hangings , nay , my leaves , And left me bare to weather .
GUIDERIUS : Uncertain favour !
