PISANIO : I 'll write to my lord she 's dead . O Imogen , Safe mayst thou wander , safe return again !
CLOTEN : Sirrah , is this letter true ?
PISANIO : Sir , as I think .
CLOTEN : It is Posthumus ' hand ; I know 't . Sirrah , if thou wouldst not be a villain , but do me true service , undergo those employments wherein I should have cause to use thee with a serious industry , that is , what villany soe 'er I bid thee do , to perform it directly and truly , I would think thee an honest man : thou shouldst neither want my means for thy relief nor my voice for thy preferment .
PISANIO : Well , my good lord .
CLOTEN : Wilt thou serve me ? for since patiently and constantly thou hast stuck to the bare fortune of that beggar Posthumus , thou canst not , in the course of gratitude , but be a diligent follower of mine : wilt thou serve me ?
PISANIO : Sir , I will .
CLOTEN : Give me thy hand ; here 's my purse . Hast any of thy late master 's garments in thy possession ?
PISANIO : I have , my lord , at my lodging , the same suit he wore when he took leave of my lady and mistress .
CLOTEN : The first service thou dost me , fetch that suit hither : let it be thy lint service ; go .
PISANIO : I shall , my lord . Exit
CLOTEN : Meet thee at Milford-Haven ! --I forgot to ask him one thing ; I 'll remember 't anon : --even there , thou villain Posthumus , will I kill thee . I would these garments were come . She said upon a time--the bitterness of it I now belch from my heart--that she held the very garment of Posthumus in more respect than my noble and natural person together with the adornment of my qualities . With that suit upon my back , will I ravish her : first kill him , and in her eyes ; there shall she see my valour , which will then be a torment to her contempt . He on the ground , my speech of insultment ended on his dead body , and when my lust hath dined , --which , as I say , to vex her I will execute in the clothes that she so praised , --to the court I 'll knock her back , foot her home again . She hath despised me rejoicingly , and I 'll be merry in my revenge . Re-enter PISANIO , with the clothes Be those the garments ?
PISANIO : Ay , my noble lord .
CLOTEN : How long is 't since she went to Milford-Haven ?
PISANIO : She can scarce be there yet .
CLOTEN : Bring this apparel to my chamber ; that is the second thing that I have commanded thee : the third is , that thou wilt be a voluntary mute to my design . Be but duteous , and true preferment shall tender itself to thee . My revenge is now at Milford : would I had wings to follow it ! Come , and be true . Exit
PISANIO : Thou bid 'st me to my loss : for true to thee Were to prove false , which I will never be , To him that is most true . To Milford go , And find not her whom thou pursuest . Flow , flow , You heavenly blessings , on her ! This fool 's speed Be cross 'd with slowness ; labour be his meed ! Exit Enter IMOGEN , in boy 's clothes
