IACHIMO : Lamentable ! What , To hide me from the radiant sun and solace I ' the dungeon by a snuff ?
IMOGEN : I pray you , sir , Deliver with more openness your answers To my demands . Why do you pity me ?
IACHIMO : That others do-- I was about to say--enjoy your--But It is an office of the gods to venge it , Not mine to speak on ' t .
IMOGEN : You do seem to know Something of me , or what concerns me : pray you , -- Since doubling things go ill often hurts more Than to be sure they do ; for certainties Either are past remedies , or , timely knowing , The remedy then born--discover to me What both you spur and stop .
IACHIMO : Had I this cheek To bathe my lips upon ; this hand , whose touch , Whose every touch , would force the feeler 's soul To the oath of loyalty ; this object , which Takes prisoner the wild motion of mine eye , Fixing it only here ; should I , damn 'd then , Slaver with lips as common as the stairs That mount the Capitol ; join gripes with hands Made hard with hourly falsehood--falsehood , as With labour ; then by-peeping in an eye Base and unlustrous as the smoky light That 's fed with stinking tallow ; it were fit That all the plagues of hell should at one time Encounter such revolt .
IMOGEN : My lord , I fear , Has forgot Britain .
IACHIMO : And himself . Not I , Inclined to this intelligence , pronounce The beggary of his change ; but ' tis your graces That from pay mutest conscience to my tongue Charms this report out .
IMOGEN : Let me hear no more .
IACHIMO : O dearest soul ! your cause doth strike my heart With pity , that doth make me sick . A lady So fair , and fasten 'd to an empery , Would make the great 'st king double , --to be partner 'd With tomboys hired with that self-exhibition Which your own coffers yield ! with diseased ventures That play with all infirmities for gold Which rottenness can lend nature ! such boil 'd stuff As well might poison poison ! Be revenged ; Or she that bore you was no queen , and you Recoil from your great stock .
IMOGEN : Revenged ! How should I be revenged ? If this be true , -- As I have such a heart that both mine ears Must not in haste abuse--if it be true , How should I be revenged ?
IACHIMO : Should he make me Live , like Diana 's priest , betwixt cold sheets , Whiles he is vaulting variable ramps , In your despite , upon your purse ? Revenge it . I dedicate myself to your sweet pleasure , More noble than that runagate to your bed , And will continue fast to your affection , Still close as sure .
IMOGEN : What , ho , Pisanio !
IACHIMO : Let me my service tender on your lips .
IMOGEN : Away ! I do condemn mine ears that have So long attended thee . If thou wert honourable , Thou wouldst have told this tale for virtue , not For such an end thou seek 'st , --as base as strange . Thou wrong 'st a gentleman , who is as far From thy report as thou from honour , and Solicit 'st here a lady that disdains Thee and the devil alike . What ho , Pisanio ! The king my father shall be made acquainted Of thy assault : if he shall think it fit , A saucy stranger in his court to mart As in a Romish stew and to expound His beastly mind to us , he hath a court He little cares for and a daughter who He not respects at all . What , ho , Pisanio !
