GUIDERIUS : Than be so Better to cease to be . Pray , sir , to the army : I and my brother are not known ; yourself So out of thought , and thereto so o 'ergrown , Cannot be question 'd .
ARVIRAGUS : By this sun that shines , I 'll thither : what thing is it that I never Did see man die ! scarce ever look 'd on blood , But that of coward hares , hot goats , and venison ! Never bestrid a horse , save one that had A rider like myself , who ne 'er wore rowel Nor iron on his heel ! I am ashamed To look upon the holy sun , to have The benefit of his blest beams , remaining So long a poor unknown .
GUIDERIUS : By heavens , I 'll go : If you will bless me , sir , and give me leave , I 'll take the better care , but if you will not , The hazard therefore due fall on me by The hands of Romans !
ARVIRAGUS : So say I amen .
BELARIUS : No reason I , since of your lives you set So slight a valuation , should reserve My crack 'd one to more care . Have with you , boys ! If in your country wars you chance to die , That is my bed too , lads , an there I 'll lie : Lead , lead . Aside The time seems long ; their blood thinks scorn , Till it fly out and show them princes born . Enter POSTHUMUS , with a bloody handkerchief
POSTHUMUS LEONATUS : Yea , bloody cloth , I 'll keep thee , for I wish 'd Thou shouldst be colour 'd thus . You married ones , If each of you should take this course , how many Must murder wives much better than themselves For wrying but a little ! O Pisanio ! Every good servant does not all commands : No bond but to do just ones . Gods ! if you Should have ta 'en vengeance on my faults , I never Had lived to put on this : so had you saved The noble Imogen to repent , and struck Me , wretch more worth your vengeance . But , alack , You snatch some hence for little faults ; that 's love , To have them fall no more : you some permit To second ills with ills , each elder worse , And make them dread it , to the doers ' thrift . But Imogen is your own : do your best wills , And make me blest to obey ! I am brought hither Among the Italian gentry , and to fight Against my lady 's kingdom : ' tis enough That , Britain , I have kill 'd thy mistress ; peace ! I 'll give no wound to thee . Therefore , good heavens , Hear patiently my purpose : I 'll disrobe me Of these Italian weeds and suit myself As does a Briton peasant : so I 'll fight Against the part I come with ; so I 'll die For thee , O Imogen , even for whom my life Is every breath a death ; and thus , unknown , Pitied nor hated , to the face of peril Myself I 'll dedicate . Let me make men know More valour in me than my habits show . Gods , put the strength o ' the Leonati in me ! To shame the guise o ' the world , I will begin The fashion , less without and more within . Exit Enter , from one side , LUCIUS , IACHIMO , and the Roman Army : from the other side , the British Army ; POSTHUMUS LEONATUS following , like a poor soldier . They march over and go out . Then enter again , in skirmish , IACHIMO and POSTHUMUS LEONATUS he vanquisheth and disarmeth IACHIMO , and then leaves him
