CLOTEN : Art not afeard ?
GUIDERIUS : Those that I reverence those I fear , the wise : At fools I laugh , not fear them .
CLOTEN : Die the death : When I have slain thee with my proper hand , I 'll follow those that even now fled hence , And on the gates of Lud 's-town set your heads : Yield , rustic mountaineer . Re-enter BELARIUS and ARVIRAGUS
BELARIUS : No companies abroad ?
ARVIRAGUS : None in the world : you did mistake him , sure .
BELARIUS : I cannot tell : long is it since I saw him , But time hath nothing blurr 'd those lines of favour Which then he wore ; the snatches in his voice , And burst of speaking , were as his : I am absolute ' Twas very Cloten .
ARVIRAGUS : In this place we left them : I wish my brother make good time with him , You say he is so fell .
BELARIUS : Being scarce made up , I mean , to man , he had not apprehension Of roaring terrors ; for the effect of judgment Is oft the cause of fear . But , see , thy brother . Re-enter GUIDERIUS , with CLOTEN 'S head
GUIDERIUS : This Cloten was a fool , an empty purse ; There was no money in 't : not Hercules Could have knock 'd out his brains , for he had none : Yet I not doing this , the fool had borne My head as I do his .
BELARIUS : What hast thou done ?
GUIDERIUS : I am perfect what : cut off one Cloten 's head , Son to the queen , after his own report ; Who call 'd me traitor , mountaineer , and swore With his own single hand he 'ld take us in Displace our heads where--thank the gods ! --they grow , And set them on Lud 's-town .
BELARIUS : We are all undone .
GUIDERIUS : Why , worthy father , what have we to lose , But that he swore to take , our lives ? The law Protects not us : then why should we be tender To let an arrogant piece of flesh threat us , Play judge and executioner all himself , For we do fear the law ? What company Discover you abroad ?
BELARIUS : No single soul Can we set eye on ; but in all safe reason He must have some attendants . Though his humour Was nothing but mutation , ay , and that From one bad thing to worse ; not frenzy , not Absolute madness could so far have raved To bring him here alone ; although perhaps It may be heard at court that such as we Cave here , hunt here , are outlaws , and in time May make some stronger head ; the which he hearing-- As it is like him--might break out , and swear He 'ld fetch us in ; yet is 't not probable To come alone , either he so undertaking , Or they so suffering : then on good ground we fear , If we do fear this body hath a tail More perilous than the head .
ARVIRAGUS : Let ordinance Come as the gods foresay it : howsoe 'er , My brother hath done well .
BELARIUS : I had no mind To hunt this day : the boy Fidele 's sickness Did make my way long forth .
GUIDERIUS : With his own sword , Which he did wave against my throat , I have ta 'en His head from him : I 'll throw 't into the creek Behind our rock ; and let it to the sea , And tell the fishes he 's the queen 's son , Cloten : That 's all I reck . Exit
BELARIUS : I fear ' twill be revenged : Would , Polydote , thou hadst not done 't ! though valour Becomes thee well enough .
ARVIRAGUS : Would I had done 't So the revenge alone pursued me ! Polydore , I love thee brotherly , but envy much Thou hast robb 'd me of this deed : I would revenges , That possible strength might meet , would seek us through And put us to our answer .
