Frenchman : Sir , you o 'er-rate my poor kindness : I was glad I did atone my countryman and you ; it had been pity you should have been put together with so mortal a purpose as then each bore , upon importance of so slight and trivial a nature .
POSTHUMUS LEONATUS : By your pardon , sir , I was then a young traveller ; rather shunned to go even with what I heard than in my every action to be guided by others ' experiences : but upon my mended judgment--if I offend not to say it is mended--my quarrel was not altogether slight .
Frenchman : ' Faith , yes , to be put to the arbitrement of swords , and by such two that would by all likelihood have confounded one the other , or have fallen both .
IACHIMO : Can we , with manners , ask what was the difference ?
Frenchman : Safely , I think : ' twas a contention in public , which may , without contradiction , suffer the report . It was much like an argument that fell out last night , where each of us fell in praise of our country mistresses ; this gentleman at that time vouching--and upon warrant of bloody affirmation--his to be more fair , virtuous , wise , chaste , constant-qualified and less attemptable than any the rarest of our ladies in France .
IACHIMO : That lady is not now living , or this gentleman 's opinion by this worn out .
POSTHUMUS LEONATUS : She holds her virtue still and I my mind .
IACHIMO : You must not so far prefer her ' fore ours of Italy .
POSTHUMUS LEONATUS : Being so far provoked as I was in France , I would abate her nothing , though I profess myself her adorer , not her friend .
IACHIMO : As fair and as good--a kind of hand-in-hand comparison--had been something too fair and too good for any lady in Britain . If she went before others I have seen , as that diamond of yours outlustres many I have beheld . I could not but believe she excelled many : but I have not seen the most precious diamond that is , nor you the lady .
POSTHUMUS LEONATUS : I praised her as I rated her : so do I my stone .
IACHIMO : What do you esteem it at ?
POSTHUMUS LEONATUS : More than the world enjoys .
IACHIMO : Either your unparagoned mistress is dead , or she 's outprized by a trifle .
POSTHUMUS LEONATUS : You are mistaken : the one may be sold , or given , if there were wealth enough for the purchase , or merit for the gift : the other is not a thing for sale , and only the gift of the gods .
IACHIMO : Which the gods have given you ?
POSTHUMUS LEONATUS : Which , by their graces , I will keep .
IACHIMO : You may wear her in title yours : but , you know , strange fowl light upon neighbouring ponds . Your ring may be stolen too : so your brace of unprizable estimations ; the one is but frail and the other casual ; a cunning thief , or a that way accomplished courtier , would hazard the winning both of first and last .
POSTHUMUS LEONATUS : Your Italy contains none so accomplished a courtier to convince the honour of my mistress , if , in the holding or loss of that , you term her frail . I do nothing doubt you have store of thieves ; notwithstanding , I fear not my ring .
PHILARIO : Let us leave here , gentlemen .
POSTHUMUS LEONATUS : Sir , with all my heart . This worthy signior , I thank him , makes no stranger of me ; we are familiar at first .
IACHIMO : With five times so much conversation , I should get ground of your fair mistress , make her go back , even to the yielding , had I admittance and opportunity to friend .
POSTHUMUS LEONATUS : No , no .
