Captain : To them the legions garrison 'd in Gailia , After your will , have cross 'd the sea , attending You here at Milford-Haven with your ships : They are in readiness .
CAIUS LUCIUS : But what from Rome ?
Captain : The senate hath stirr 'd up the confiners And gentlemen of Italy , most willing spirits , That promise noble service : and they come Under the conduct of bold Iachimo , Syenna 's brother .
CAIUS LUCIUS : When expect you them ?
Captain : With the next benefit o ' the wind .
CAIUS LUCIUS : This forwardness Makes our hopes fair . Command our present numbers Be muster 'd ; bid the captains look to 't . Now , sir , What have you dream 'd of late of this war 's purpose ?
Soothsayer : Last night the very gods show 'd me a vision-- I fast and pray 'd for their intelligence--thus : I saw Jove 's bird , the Roman eagle , wing 'd From the spongy south to this part of the west , There vanish 'd in the sunbeams : which portends-- Unless my sins abuse my divination-- Success to the Roman host .
CAIUS LUCIUS : Dream often so , And never false . Soft , ho ! what trunk is here Without his top ? The ruin speaks that sometime It was a worthy building . How ! a page ! Or dead , or sleeping on him ? But dead rather ; For nature doth abhor to make his bed With the defunct , or sleep upon the dead . Let 's see the boy 's face .
Captain : He 's alive , my lord .
CAIUS LUCIUS : He 'll then instruct us of this body . Young one , Inform us of thy fortunes , for it seems They crave to be demanded . Who is this Thou makest thy bloody pillow ? Or who was he That , otherwise than noble nature did , Hath alter 'd that good picture ? What 's thy interest In this sad wreck ? How came it ? Who is it ? What art thou ?
IMOGEN : I am nothing : or if not , Nothing to be were better . This was my master , A very valiant Briton and a good , That here by mountaineers lies slain . Alas ! There is no more such masters : I may wander From east to occident , cry out for service , Try many , all good , serve truly , never Find such another master .
CAIUS LUCIUS : ' Lack , good youth ! Thou movest no less with thy complaining than Thy master in bleeding : say his name , good friend .
IMOGEN : Richard du Champ . Aside If I do lie and do No harm by it , though the gods hear , I hope They 'll pardon it.--Say you , sir ?
CAIUS LUCIUS : Thy name ?
IMOGEN : Fidele , sir .
CAIUS LUCIUS : Thou dost approve thyself the very same : Thy name well fits thy faith , thy faith thy name . Wilt take thy chance with me ? I will not say Thou shalt be so well master 'd , but , be sure , No less beloved . The Roman emperor 's letters , Sent by a consul to me , should not sooner Than thine own worth prefer thee : go with me .
IMOGEN : I 'll follow , sir . But first , an 't please the gods , I 'll hide my master from the flies , as deep As these poor pickaxes can dig ; and when With wild wood-leaves and weeds I ha ' strew 'd his grave , And on it said a century of prayers , Such as I can , twice o 'er , I 'll weep and sigh ; And leaving so his service , follow you , So please you entertain me .
