IMOGEN : O , for such means ! Though peril to my modesty , not death on 't , I would adventure .
PISANIO : Well , then , here 's the point : You must forget to be a woman ; change Command into obedience : fear and niceness-- The handmaids of all women , or , more truly , Woman its pretty self--into a waggish courage : Ready in gibes , quick-answer 'd , saucy and As quarrelous as the weasel ; nay , you must Forget that rarest treasure of your cheek , Exposing it--but , O , the harder heart ! Alack , no remedy ! --to the greedy touch Of common-kissing Titan , and forget Your laboursome and dainty trims , wherein You made great Juno angry .
IMOGEN : Nay , be brief I see into thy end , and am almost A man already .
PISANIO : First , make yourself but like one . Fore-thinking this , I have already fit-- ' Tis in my cloak-bag--doublet , hat , hose , all That answer to them : would you in their serving , And with what imitation you can borrow From youth of such a season , ' fore noble Lucius Present yourself , desire his service , tell him wherein you 're happy , --which you 'll make him know , If that his head have ear in music , --doubtless With joy he will embrace you , for he 's honourable And doubling that , most holy . Your means abroad , You have me , rich ; and I will never fail Beginning nor supplyment .
IMOGEN : Thou art all the comfort The gods will diet me with . Prithee , away : There 's more to be consider 'd ; but we 'll even All that good time will give us : this attempt I am soldier to , and will abide it with A prince 's courage . Away , I prithee .
PISANIO : Well , madam , we must take a short farewell , Lest , being miss 'd , I be suspected of Your carriage from the court . My noble mistress , Here is a box ; I had it from the queen : What 's in 't is precious ; if you are sick at sea , Or stomach-qualm 'd at land , a dram of this Will drive away distemper . To some shade , And fit you to your manhood . May the gods Direct you to the best !
IMOGEN : Amen : I thank thee . Enter CYMBELINE , QUEEN , CLOTEN , LUCIUS , Lords , and Attendants
CYMBELINE : Thus far ; and so farewell .
CAIUS LUCIUS : Thanks , royal sir . My emperor hath wrote , I must from hence ; And am right sorry that I must report ye My master 's enemy .
CYMBELINE : Our subjects , sir , Will not endure his yoke ; and for ourself To show less sovereignty than they , must needs Appear unkinglike .
CAIUS LUCIUS : So , sir : I desire of you A conduct over-land to Milford-Haven . Madam , all joy befal your grace !
QUEEN : And you !
CYMBELINE : My lords , you are appointed for that office ; The due of honour in no point omit . So farewell , noble Lucius .
CAIUS LUCIUS : Your hand , my lord .
CLOTEN : Receive it friendly ; but from this time forth I wear it as your enemy .
CAIUS LUCIUS : Sir , the event Is yet to name the winner : fare you well .
CYMBELINE : Leave not the worthy Lucius , good my lords , Till he have cross 'd the Severn . Happiness !
QUEEN : He goes hence frowning : but it honours us That we have given him cause .
CLOTEN : ' Tis all the better ; Your valiant Britons have their wishes in it .
CYMBELINE : Lucius hath wrote already to the emperor How it goes here . It fits us therefore ripely Our chariots and our horsemen be in readiness : The powers that he already hath in Gallia Will soon be drawn to head , from whence he moves His war for Britain .
QUEEN : ' Tis not sleepy business ; But must be look 'd to speedily and strongly .
