ARVIRAGUS : Poor sick Fidele ! I 'll weringly to him : to gain his colour I 'ld let a parish of such Clotens ' blood , And praise myself for charity . Exit
BELARIUS : O thou goddess , Thou divine Nature , how thyself thou blazon 'st In these two princely boys ! They are as gentle As zephyrs blowing below the violet , Not wagging his sweet head ; and yet as rough , Their royal blood enchafed , as the rudest wind , That by the top doth take the mountain pine , And make him stoop to the vale . ' Tis wonder That an invisible instinct should frame them To royalty unlearn 'd , honour untaught , Civility not seen from other , valour That wildly grows in them , but yields a crop As if it had been sow 'd . Yet still it 's strange What Cloten 's being here to us portends , Or what his death will bring us . Re-enter GUIDERIUS
GUIDERIUS : Where 's my brother ? I have sent Cloten 's clotpoll down the stream , In embassy to his mother : his body 's hostage For his return . Solemn music
BELARIUS : My ingenious instrument ! Hark , Polydore , it sounds ! But what occasion Hath Cadwal now to give it motion ? Hark !
GUIDERIUS : Is he at home ?
BELARIUS : He went hence even now .
GUIDERIUS : What does he mean ? since death of my dear 'st mother it did not speak before . All solemn things Should answer solemn accidents . The matter ? Triumphs for nothing and lamenting toys Is jollity for apes and grief for boys . Is Cadwal mad ?
BELARIUS : Look , here he comes , And brings the dire occasion in his arms Of what we blame him for . Re-enter ARVIRAGUS , with IMOGEN , as dead , bearing her in his arms
ARVIRAGUS : The bird is dead That we have made so much on . I had rather Have skipp 'd from sixteen years of age to sixty , To have turn 'd my leaping-time into a crutch , Than have seen this .
GUIDERIUS : O sweetest , fairest lily ! My brother wears thee not the one half so well As when thou grew 'st thyself .
BELARIUS : O melancholy ! Who ever yet could sound thy bottom ? find The ooze , to show what coast thy sluggish crare Might easiliest harbour in ? Thou blessed thing ! Jove knows what man thou mightst have made ; but I , Thou diedst , a most rare boy , of melancholy . How found you him ?
ARVIRAGUS : Stark , as you see : Thus smiling , as some fly hid tickled slumber , Not as death 's dart , being laugh 'd at ; his right cheek Reposing on a cushion .
GUIDERIUS : Where ?
ARVIRAGUS : O ' the floor ; His arms thus leagued : I thought he slept , and put My clouted brogues from off my feet , whose rudeness Answer 'd my steps too loud .
GUIDERIUS : Why , he but sleeps : If he be gone , he 'll make his grave a bed ; With female fairies will his tomb be haunted , And worms will not come to thee .
ARVIRAGUS : With fairest flowers Whilst summer lasts and I live here , Fidele , I 'll sweeten thy sad grave : thou shalt not lack The flower that 's like thy face , pale primrose , nor The azured harebell , like thy veins , no , nor The leaf of eglantine , whom not to slander , Out-sweeten 'd not thy breath : the ruddock would , With charitable bill , --O bill , sore-shaming Those rich-left heirs that let their fathers lie Without a monument ! --bring thee all this ; Yea , and furr 'd moss besides , when flowers are none , To winter-ground thy corse .
GUIDERIUS : Prithee , have done ; And do not play in wench-like words with that Which is so serious . Let us bury him , And not protract with admiration what Is now due debt . To the grave !
ARVIRAGUS : Say , where shall 's lay him ?
GUIDERIUS : By good Euriphile , our mother .
