Sicilius Leonatus : No more , thou thunder-master , show Thy spite on mortal flies : With Mars fall out , with Juno chide , That thy adulteries Rates and revenges . Hath my poor boy done aught but well , Whose face I never saw ? I died whilst in the womb he stay 'd Attending nature 's law : Whose father then , as men report Thou orphans ' father art , Thou shouldst have been , and shielded him From this earth-vexing smart .
Mother : Lucina lent not me her aid , But took me in my throes ; That from me was Posthumus ript , Came crying ' mongst his foes , A thing of pity !
Sicilius Leonatus : Great nature , like his ancestry , Moulded the stuff so fair , That he deserved the praise o ' the world , As great Sicilius ' heir .
First Brother : When once he was mature for man , In Britain where was he That could stand up his parallel ; Or fruitful object be In eye of Imogen , that best Could deem his dignity ?
Mother : With marriage wherefore was he mock 'd , To be exiled , and thrown From Leonati seat , and cast From her his dearest one , Sweet Imogen ?
Sicilius Leonatus : Why did you suffer Iachimo , Slight thing of Italy , To taint his nobler heart and brain With needless jealosy ; And to become the geck and scorn O ' th ' other 's villany ?
Second Brother : For this from stiller seats we came , Our parents and us twain , That striking in our country 's cause Fell bravely and were slain , Our fealty and Tenantius ' right With honour to maintain .
First Brother : Like hardiment Posthumus hath To Cymbeline perform 'd : Then , Jupiter , thou king of gods , Why hast thou thus adjourn 'd The graces for his merits due , Being all to dolours turn 'd ?
Sicilius Leonatus : Thy crystal window ope ; look out ; No longer exercise Upon a valiant race thy harsh And potent injuries .
Mother : Since , Jupiter , our son is good , Take off his miseries .
Sicilius Leonatus : Peep through thy marble mansion ; help ; Or we poor ghosts will cry To the shining synod of the rest Against thy deity .
First Brother Second Brother : Help , Jupiter ; or we appeal , And from thy justice fly . Jupiter descends in thunder and lightning , sitting upon an eagle : he throws a thunderbolt . The Apparitions fall on their knees
Jupiter : No more , you petty spirits of region low , Offend our hearing ; hush ! How dare you ghosts Accuse the thunderer , whose bolt , you know , Sky-planted batters all rebelling coasts ? Poor shadows of Elysium , hence , and rest Upon your never-withering banks of flowers : Be not with mortal accidents opprest ; No care of yours it is ; you know ' tis ours . Whom best I love I cross ; to make my gift , The more delay 'd , delighted . Be content ; Your low-laid son our godhead will uplift : His comforts thrive , his trials well are spent . Our Jovial star reign 'd at his birth , and in Our temple was he married . Rise , and fade . He shall be lord of lady Imogen , And happier much by his affliction made . This tablet lay upon his breast , wherein Our pleasure his full fortune doth confine : and so , away : no further with your din Express impatience , lest you stir up mine . Mount , eagle , to my palace crystalline . Ascends
Sicilius Leonatus : He came in thunder ; his celestial breath Was sulphurous to smell : the holy eagle Stoop 'd as to foot us : his ascension is More sweet than our blest fields : his royal bird Prunes the immortal wing and cloys his beak , As when his god is pleased .
All : Thanks , Jupiter !
Sicilius Leonatus : The marble pavement closes , he is enter 'd His radiant root . Away ! and , to be blest , Let us with care perform his great behest . The Apparitions vanish
