First Gaoler : Come , sir , are you ready for death ?
POSTHUMUS LEONATUS : Over-roasted rather ; ready long ago .
First Gaoler : Hanging is the word , sir : if you be ready for that , you are well cooked .
POSTHUMUS LEONATUS : So , if I prove a good repast to the spectators , the dish pays the shot .
First Gaoler : A heavy reckoning for you , sir . But the comfort is , you shall be called to no more payments , fear no more tavern-bills ; which are often the sadness of parting , as the procuring of mirth : you come in flint for want of meat , depart reeling with too much drink ; sorry that you have paid too much , and sorry that you are paid too much ; purse and brain both empty ; the brain the heavier for being too light , the purse too light , being drawn of heaviness : of this contradiction you shall now be quit . O , the charity of a penny cord ! It sums up thousands in a trice : you have no true debitor and creditor but it ; of what 's past , is , and to come , the discharge : your neck , sir , is pen , book and counters ; so the acquittance follows .
POSTHUMUS LEONATUS : I am merrier to die than thou art to live .
First Gaoler : Indeed , sir , he that sleeps feels not the tooth-ache : but a man that were to sleep your sleep , and a hangman to help him to bed , I think he would change places with his officer ; for , look you , sir , you know not which way you shall go .
POSTHUMUS LEONATUS : Yes , indeed do I , fellow .
First Gaoler : Your death has eyes in ' s head then ; I have not seen him so pictured : you must either be directed by some that take upon them to know , or do take upon yourself that which I am sure you do not know , or jump the after inquiry on your own peril : and how you shall speed in your journey 's end , I think you 'll never return to tell one .
POSTHUMUS LEONATUS : I tell thee , fellow , there are none want eyes to direct them the way I am going , but such as wink and will not use them .
First Gaoler : What an infinite mock is this , that a man should have the best use of eyes to see the way of blindness ! I am sure hanging 's the way of winking . Enter a Messenger
Messenger : Knock off his manacles ; bring your prisoner to the king .
POSTHUMUS LEONATUS : Thou bring 'st good news ; I am called to be made free .
First Gaoler : I 'll be hang 'd then .
POSTHUMUS LEONATUS : Thou shalt be then freer than a gaoler ; no bolts for the dead .
First Gaoler : Unless a man would marry a gallows and beget young gibbets , I never saw one so prone . Yet , on my conscience , there are verier knaves desire to live , for all he be a Roman : and there be some of them too that die against their wills ; so should I , if I were one . I would we were all of one mind , and one mind good ; O , there were desolation of gaolers and gallowses ! I speak against my present profit , but my wish hath a preferment in ' t . Enter CYMBELINE , BELARIUS , GUIDERIUS , ARVIRAGUS , PISANIO , Lords , Officers , and Attendants
CYMBELINE : Stand by my side , you whom the gods have made Preservers of my throne . Woe is my heart That the poor soldier that so richly fought , Whose rags shamed gilded arms , whose naked breast Stepp 'd before larges of proof , cannot be found : He shall be happy that can find him , if Our grace can make him so .
BELARIUS : I never saw Such noble fury in so poor a thing ; Such precious deeds in one that promises nought But beggary and poor looks .
CYMBELINE : No tidings of him ?
