BELARIUS : Stand , stand ! We have the advantage of the ground ; The lane is guarded : nothing routs us but The villany of our fears .
GUIDERIUS ARVIRAGUS : Stand , stand , and fight ! Re-enter POSTHUMUS LEONATUS , and seconds the Britons : they rescue CYMBELINE , and exeunt . Then re-enter LUCIUS , and IACHIMO , with IMOGEN
CAIUS LUCIUS : Away , boy , from the troops , and save thyself ; For friends kill friends , and the disorder 's such As war were hoodwink 'd .
IACHIMO : ' Tis their fresh supplies .
CAIUS LUCIUS : It is a day turn 'd strangely : or betimes Let 's reinforce , or fly . Enter POSTHUMUS LEONATUS and a British Lord
Lord : Camest thou from where they made the stand ?
POSTHUMUS LEONATUS : I did . Though you , it seems , come from the fliers .
Lord : I did .
POSTHUMUS LEONATUS : No blame be to you , sir ; for all was lost , But that the heavens fought : the king himself Of his wings destitute , the army broken , And but the backs of Britons seen , all flying Through a straight lane ; the enemy full-hearted , Lolling the tongue with slaughtering , having work More plentiful than tools to do 't , struck down Some mortally , some slightly touch 'd , some falling Merely through fear ; that the straight pass was damm 'd With dead men hurt behind , and cowards living To die with lengthen 'd shame .
Lord : Where was this lane ?
POSTHUMUS LEONATUS : Close by the battle , ditch 'd , and wall 'd with turf ; Which gave advantage to an ancient soldier , An honest one , I warrant ; who deserved So long a breeding as his white beard came to , In doing this for 's country : athwart the lane , He , with two striplings-lads more like to run The country base than to commit such slaughter With faces fit for masks , or rather fairer Than those for preservation cased , or shame-- Made good the passage ; cried to those that fled , ' Our Britain s harts die flying , not our men : To darkness fleet souls that fly backwards . Stand ; Or we are Romans and will give you that Like beasts which you shun beastly , and may save , But to look back in frown : stand , stand . ' These three , Three thousand confident , in act as many-- For three performers are the file when all The rest do nothing--with this word ' Stand , stand , ' Accommodated by the place , more charming With their own nobleness , which could have turn 'd A distaff to a lance , gilded pale looks , Part shame , part spirit renew 'd ; that some , turn 'd coward But by example--O , a sin in war , Damn 'd in the first beginners ! --gan to look The way that they did , and to grin like lions Upon the pikes o ' the hunters . Then began A stop i ' the chaser , a retire , anon A rout , confusion thick ; forthwith they fly Chickens , the way which they stoop 'd eagles ; slaves , The strides they victors made : and now our cowards , Like fragments in hard voyages , became The life o ' the need : having found the backdoor open Of the unguarded hearts , heavens , how they wound ! Some slain before ; some dying ; some their friends O 'er borne i ' the former wave : ten , chased by one , Are now each one the slaughter-man of twenty : Those that would die or ere resist are grown The mortal bugs o ' the field .
Lord : This was strange chance A narrow lane , an old man , and two boys .
POSTHUMUS LEONATUS : Nay , do not wonder at it : you are made Rather to wonder at the things you hear Than to work any . Will you rhyme upon 't , And vent it for a mockery ? Here is one : ' Two boys , an old man twice a boy , a lane , Preserved the Britons , was the Romans ' bane . ' 
Lord : Nay , be not angry , sir .
