Lord : Farewell ; you 're angry .
POSTHUMUS LEONATUS : Still going ? Exit Lord This is a lord ! O noble misery , To be i ' the field , and ask ' what news ? ' of me ! To-day how many would have given their honours To have saved their carcasses ! took heel to do 't , And yet died too ! I , in mine own woe charm 'd , Could not find death where I did hear him groan , Nor feel him where he struck : being an ugly monster , ' Tis strange he hides him in fresh cups , soft beds , Sweet words ; or hath more ministers than we That draw his knives i ' the war . Well , I will find him For being now a favourer to the Briton , No more a Briton , I have resumed again The part I came in : fight I will no more , But yield me to the veriest hind that shall Once touch my shoulder . Great the slaughter is Here made by the Roman ; great the answer be Britons must take . For me , my ransom 's death ; On either side I come to spend my breath ; Which neither here I 'll keep nor bear again , But end it by some means for Imogen . Enter two British Captains and Soldiers
First Captain : Great Jupiter be praised ! Lucius is taken . ' Tis thought the old man and his sons were angels .
Second Captain : There was a fourth man , in a silly habit , That gave the affront with them .
First Captain : So ' tis reported : But none of ' em can be found . Stand ! who 's there ?
POSTHUMUS LEONATUS : A Roman , Who had not now been drooping here , if seconds Had answer 'd him .
Second Captain : Lay hands on him ; a dog ! A leg of Rome shall not return to tell What crows have peck 'd them here . He brags his service As if he were of note : bring him to the king . Enter CYMBELINE , BELARIUS , GUIDERIUS , ARVIRAGUS , PISANIO , Soldiers , Attendants , and Roman Captives . The Captains present POSTHUMUS LEONATUS to CYMBELINE , who delivers him over to a Gaoler : then exeunt omnes Enter POSTHUMUS LEONATUS and two Gaolers
First Gaoler : You shall not now be stol 'n , you have locks upon you ; So graze as you find pasture .
Second Gaoler : Ay , or a stomach .
