ARVIRAGUS : I pray , draw near . Enter two Senators and Tribunes
First Senator : This is the tenor of the emperor 's writ : That since the common men are now in action ' Gainst the Pannonians and Dalmatians , And that the legions now in Gallia are Full weak to undertake our wars against The fall 'n-off Britons , that we do incite The gentry to this business . He creates Lucius preconsul : and to you the tribunes , For this immediate levy , he commends His absolute commission . Long live Caesar !
First Tribune : Is Lucius general of the forces ?
Second Senator : Ay .
First Tribune : Remaining now in Gallia ?
First Senator : With those legions Which I have spoke of , whereunto your levy Must be supplyant : the words of your commission Will tie you to the numbers and the time Of their dispatch .
First Tribune : We will discharge our duty . Enter CLOTEN
CLOTEN : I am near to the place where they should meet , if Pisanio have mapped it truly . How fit his garments serve me ! Why should his mistress , who was made by him that made the tailor , not be fit too ? the rather--saving reverence of the word--for ' tis said a woman 's fitness comes by fits . Therein I must play the workman . I dare speak it to myself--for it is not vain-glory for a man and his glass to confer in his own chamber--I mean , the lines of my body are as well drawn as his ; no less young , more strong , not beneath him in fortunes , beyond him in the advantage of the time , above him in birth , alike conversant in general services , and more remarkable in single oppositions : yet this imperceiverant thing loves him in my despite . What mortality is ! Posthumus , thy head , which now is growing upon thy shoulders , shall within this hour be off ; thy mistress enforced ; thy garments cut to pieces before thy face : and all this done , spurn her home to her father ; who may haply be a little angry for my so rough usage ; but my mother , having power of his testiness , shall turn all into my commendations . My horse is tied up safe : out , sword , and to a sore purpose ! Fortune , put them into my hand ! This is the very description of their meeting-place ; and the fellow dares not deceive me . Exit Enter , from the cave , BELARIUS , GUIDERIUS , ARVIRAGUS , and IMOGEN
BELARIUS : You are not well : remain here in the cave ; We 'll come to you after hunting .
ARVIRAGUS : Brother , stay here Are we not brothers ?
IMOGEN : So man and man should be ; But clay and clay differs in dignity , Whose dust is both alike . I am very sick .
GUIDERIUS : Go you to hunting ; I 'll abide with him .
IMOGEN : So sick I am not , yet I am not well ; But not so citizen a wanton as To seem to die ere sick : so please you , leave me ; Stick to your journal course : the breach of custom Is breach of all . I am ill , but your being by me Cannot amend me ; society is no comfort To one not sociable : I am not very sick , Since I can reason of it . Pray you , trust me here : I 'll rob none but myself ; and let me die , Stealing so poorly .
GUIDERIUS : I love thee ; I have spoke it How much the quantity , the weight as much , As I do love my father .
BELARIUS : What ! how ! how !
ARVIRAGUS : If it be sin to say so , I yoke me In my good brother 's fault : I know not why I love this youth ; and I have heard you say , Love 's reason 's without reason : the bier at door , And a demand who is 't shall die , I 'd say ' My father , not this youth . ' 
