CYMBELINE : New matter still ?
IMOGEN : It poison 'd me .
CORNELIUS : O gods ! I left out one thing which the queen confess 'd . Which must approve thee honest : ' If Pisanio Have , ' said she , ' given his mistress that confection Which I gave him for cordial , she is served As I would serve a rat . ' 
CYMBELINE : What 's this , Comelius ?
CORNELIUS : The queen , sir , very oft importuned me To temper poisons for her , still pretending The satisfaction of her knowledge only In killing creatures vile , as cats and dogs , Of no esteem : I , dreading that her purpose Was of more danger , did compound for her A certain stuff , which , being ta 'en , would cease The present power of life , but in short time All offices of nature should again Do their due functions . Have you ta 'en of it ?
IMOGEN : Most like I did , for I was dead .
BELARIUS : My boys , There was our error .
GUIDERIUS : This is , sure , Fidele .
IMOGEN : Why did you throw your wedded lady from you ? Think that you are upon a rock ; and now Throw me again . Embracing him
POSTHUMUS LEONATUS : Hang there like a fruit , my soul , Till the tree die !
CYMBELINE : How now , my flesh , my child ! What , makest thou me a dullard in this act ? Wilt thou not speak to me ?
IMOGEN : Your blessing , sir .
BELARIUS : Though you did love this youth , I blame ye not : You had a motive for 't .
CYMBELINE : My tears that fall Prove holy water on thee ! Imogen , Thy mother 's dead .
IMOGEN : I am sorry for 't , my lord .
CYMBELINE : O , she was nought ; and long of her it was That we meet here so strangely : but her son Is gone , we know not how nor where .
PISANIO : My lord , Now fear is from me , I 'll speak troth . Lord Cloten , Upon my lady 's missing , came to me With his sword drawn ; foam 'd at the mouth , and swore , If I discover 'd not which way she was gone , It was my instant death . By accident , had a feigned letter of my master 's Then in my pocket ; which directed him To seek her on the mountains near to Milford ; Where , in a frenzy , in my master 's garments , Which he enforced from me , away he posts With unchaste purpose and with oath to violate My lady 's honour : what became of him I further know not .
GUIDERIUS : Let me end the story : I slew him there .
CYMBELINE : Marry , the gods forfend ! I would not thy good deeds should from my lips Pluck a bard sentence : prithee , valiant youth , Deny 't again .
GUIDERIUS : I have spoke it , and I did it .
CYMBELINE : He was a prince .
GUIDERIUS : A most incivil one : the wrongs he did me Were nothing prince-like ; for he did provoke me With language that would make me spurn the sea , If it could so roar to me : I cut off 's head ; And am right glad he is not standing here To tell this tale of mine .
CYMBELINE : I am sorry for thee : By thine own tongue thou art condemn 'd , and must Endure our law : thou 'rt dead .
IMOGEN : That headless man I thought had been my lord .
CYMBELINE : Bind the offender , And take him from our presence .
BELARIUS : Stay , sir king : This man is better than the man he slew , As well descended as thyself ; and hath More of thee merited than a band of Clotens Had ever scar for . To the Guard Let his arms alone ; They were not born for bondage .
CYMBELINE : Why , old soldier , Wilt thou undo the worth thou art unpaid for , By tasting of our wrath ? How of descent As good as we ?
