GUIDERIUS : And at first meeting loved ; Continued so , until we thought he died .
CORNELIUS : By the queen 's dram she swallow 'd .
CYMBELINE : O rare instinct ! When shall I hear all through ? This fierce abridgement Hath to it circumstantial branches , which Distinction should be rich in . Where ? how lived You ? And when came you to serve our Roman captive ? How parted with your brothers ? how first met them ? Why fled you from the court ? and whither ? These , And your three motives to the battle , with I know not how much more , should be demanded ; And all the other by-dependencies , From chance to chance : but nor the time nor place Will serve our long inter 'gatories . See , Posthumus anchors upon Imogen , And she , like harmless lightning , throws her eye On him , her brother , me , her master , hitting Each object with a joy : the counterchange Is severally in all . Let 's quit this ground , And smoke the temple with our sacrifices . To BELARIUS Thou art my brother ; so we 'll hold thee ever .
IMOGEN : You are my father too , and did relieve me , To see this gracious season .
CYMBELINE : All o 'erjoy 'd , Save these in bonds : let them be joyful too , For they shall taste our comfort .
IMOGEN : My good master , I will yet do you service .
CAIUS LUCIUS : Happy be you !
CYMBELINE : The forlorn soldier , that so nobly fought , He would have well becomed this place , and graced The thankings of a king .
POSTHUMUS LEONATUS : I am , sir , The soldier that did company these three In poor beseeming ; ' twas a fitment for The purpose I then follow 'd . That I was he , Speak , Iachimo : I had you down and might Have made you finish .
IACHIMO : I am down again : But now my heavy conscience sinks my knee , As then your force did . Take that life , beseech you , Which I so often owe : but your ring first ; And here the bracelet of the truest princess That ever swore her faith .
POSTHUMUS LEONATUS : Kneel not to me : The power that I have on you is , to spare you ; The malice towards you to forgive you : live , And deal with others better .
CYMBELINE : Nobly doom 'd ! We 'll learn our freeness of a son-in-law ; Pardon 's the word to all .
ARVIRAGUS : You holp us , sir , As you did mean indeed to be our brother ; Joy 'd are we that you are .
POSTHUMUS LEONATUS : Your servant , princes . Good my lord of Rome , Call forth your soothsayer : as I slept , methought Great Jupiter , upon his eagle back 'd , Appear 'd to me , with other spritely shows Of mine own kindred : when I waked , I found This label on my bosom ; whose containing Is so from sense in hardness , that I can Make no collection of it : let him show His skill in the construction .
CAIUS LUCIUS : Philarmonus !
Soothsayer : Here , my good lord .
CAIUS LUCIUS : Read , and declare the meaning .
