CYMBELINE : I stand on fire : Come to the matter .
IACHIMO : All too soon I shall , Unless thou wouldst grieve quickly . This Posthumus , Most like a noble lord in love and one That had a royal lover , took his hint ; And , not dispraising whom we praised , --therein He was as calm as virtue--he began His mistress ' picture ; which by his tongue being made , And then a mind put in 't , either our brags Were crack 'd of kitchen-trolls , or his description Proved us unspeaking sots .
CYMBELINE : Nay , nay , to the purpose .
IACHIMO : Your daughter 's chastity--there it begins . He spake of her , as Dian had hot dreams , And she alone were cold : whereat I , wretch , Made scruple of his praise ; and wager 'd with him Pieces of gold ' gainst this which then he wore Upon his honour 'd finger , to attain In suit the place of 's bed and win this ring By hers and mine adultery . He , true knight , No lesser of her honour confident Than I did truly find her , stakes this ring ; And would so , had it been a carbuncle Of Phoebus ' wheel , and might so safely , had it Been all the worth of 's car . Away to Britain Post I in this design : well may you , sir , Remember me at court ; where I was taught Of your chaste daughter the wide difference ' Twixt amorous and villanous . Being thus quench 'd Of hope , not longing , mine Italian brain ' Gan in your duller Britain operate Most vilely ; for my vantage , excellent : And , to be brief , my practise so prevail 'd , That I return 'd with simular proof enough To make the noble Leonatus mad , By wounding his belief in her renown With tokens thus , and thus ; averting notes Of chamber-hanging , pictures , this her bracelet , -- O cunning , how I got it ! --nay , some marks Of secret on her person , that he could not But think her bond of chastity quite crack 'd , I having ta 'en the forfeit . Whereupon-- Methinks , I see him now--
POSTHUMUS LEONATUS : Ay , so thou dost , Italian fiend ! Ay me , most credulous fool , Egregious murderer , thief , any thing That 's due to all the villains past , in being , To come ! O , give me cord , or knife , or poison , Some upright justicer ! Thou , king , send out For torturers ingenious : it is I That all the abhorred things o ' the earth amend By being worse than they . I am Posthumus , That kill 'd thy daughter : --villain-like , I lie-- That caused a lesser villain than myself , A sacrilegious thief , to do 't : the temple Of virtue was she ; yea , and she herself . Spit , and throw stone s , cast mire upon me , set The dogs o ' the street to bay me : every villain Be call 'd Posthumus Leonitus ; and Be villany less than ' twas ! O Imogen ! My queen , my life , my wife ! O Imogen , Imogen , Imogen !
IMOGEN : Peace , my lord ; hear , hear--
POSTHUMUS LEONATUS : Shall 's have a play of this ? Thou scornful page , There lie thy part . Striking her : she falls
PISANIO : O , gentlemen , help ! Mine and your mistress ! O , my lord Posthumus ! You ne 'er kill 'd Imogen til now . Help , help ! Mine honour 'd lady !
CYMBELINE : Does the world go round ?
POSTHUMUS LEONATUS : How come these staggers on me ?
PISANIO : Wake , my mistress !
CYMBELINE : If this be so , the gods do mean to strike me To death with mortal joy .
PISANIO : How fares thy mistress ?
IMOGEN : O , get thee from my sight ; Thou gavest me poison : dangerous fellow , hence ! Breathe not where princes are .
CYMBELINE : The tune of Imogen !
