IACHIMO : Sir , my circumstances , Being so near the truth as I will make them , Must first induce you to believe : whose strength I will confirm with oath ; which , I doubt not , You 'll give me leave to spare , when you shall find You need it not .
POSTHUMUS LEONATUS : Proceed .
IACHIMO : First , her bedchamber , -- Where , I confess , I slept not , but profess Had that was well worth watching--it was hang 'd With tapesty of silk and silver ; the story Proud Cleopatra , when she met her Roman , And Cydnus swell 'd above the banks , or for The press of boats or pride : a piece of work So bravely done , so rich , that it did strive In workmanship and value ; which I wonder 'd Could be so rarely and exactly wrought , Since the true life on 't was--
POSTHUMUS LEONATUS : This is true ; And this you might have heard of here , by me , Or by some other .
IACHIMO : More particulars Must justify my knowledge .
POSTHUMUS LEONATUS : So they must , Or do your honour injury .
IACHIMO : The chimney Is south the chamber , and the chimney-piece Chaste Dian bathing : never saw I figures So likely to report themselves : the cutter Was as another nature , dumb ; outwent her , Motion and breath left out .
POSTHUMUS LEONATUS : This is a thing Which you might from relation likewise reap , Being , as it is , much spoke of .
IACHIMO : The roof o ' the chamber With golden cherubins is fretted : her andirons-- I had forgot them--were two winking Cupids Of silver , each on one foot standing , nicely Depending on their brands .
POSTHUMUS LEONATUS : This is her honour ! Let it be granted you have seen all this--and praise Be given to your remembrance--the description Of what is in her chamber nothing saves The wager you have laid .
IACHIMO : Then , if you can , Showing the bracelet Be pale : I beg but leave to air this jewel ; see ! And now ' tis up again : it must be married To that your diamond ; I 'll keep them .
POSTHUMUS LEONATUS : Jove ! Once more let me behold it : is it that Which I left with her ?
IACHIMO : Sir--I thank her--that : She stripp 'd it from her arm ; I see her yet ; Her pretty action did outsell her gift , And yet enrich 'd it too : she gave it me , and said She prized it once .
POSTHUMUS LEONATUS : May be she pluck 'd it off To send it me .
IACHIMO : She writes so to you , doth she ?
POSTHUMUS LEONATUS : O , no , no , no ! ' tis true . Here , take this too ; Gives the ring It is a basilisk unto mine eye , Kills me to look on 't . Let there be no honour Where there is beauty ; truth , where semblance ; love , Where there 's another man : the vows of women Of no more bondage be , to where they are made , Than they are to their virtues ; which is nothing . O , above measure false !
PHILARIO : Have patience , sir , And take your ring again ; ' tis not yet won : It may be probable she lost it ; or Who knows if one of her women , being corrupted , Hath stol 'n it from her ?
POSTHUMUS LEONATUS : Very true ; And so , I hope , he came by 't . Back my ring : Render to me some corporal sign about her , More evident than this ; for this was stolen .
IACHIMO : By Jupiter , I had it from her arm .
