PISANIO : It was his queen , his queen !
IMOGEN : Then waved his handkerchief ?
PISANIO : And kiss 'd it , madam .
IMOGEN : Senseless Linen ! happier therein than I ! And that was all ?
PISANIO : No , madam ; for so long As he could make me with this eye or ear Distinguish him from others , he did keep The deck , with glove , or hat , or handkerchief , Still waving , as the fits and stirs of ' s mind Could best express how slow his soul sail 'd on , How swift his ship .
IMOGEN : Thou shouldst have made him As little as a crow , or less , ere left To after-eye him .
PISANIO : Madam , so I did .
IMOGEN : I would have broke mine eye-strings ; crack 'd them , but To look upon him , till the diminution Of space had pointed him sharp as my needle , Nay , follow 'd him , till he had melted from The smallness of a gnat to air , and then Have turn 'd mine eye and wept . But , good Pisanio , When shall we hear from him ?
PISANIO : Be assured , madam , With his next vantage .
IMOGEN : I did not take my leave of him , but had Most pretty things to say : ere I could tell him How I would think on him at certain hours Such thoughts and such , or I could make him swear The shes of Italy should not betray Mine interest and his honour , or have charged him , At the sixth hour of morn , at noon , at midnight , To encounter me with orisons , for then I am in heaven for him ; or ere I could Give him that parting kiss which I had set Betwixt two charming words , comes in my father And like the tyrannous breathing of the north Shakes all our buds from growing . Enter a Lady
Lady : The queen , madam , Desires your highness ' company .
IMOGEN : Those things I bid you do , get them dispatch 'd . I will attend the queen .
PISANIO : Madam , I shall . Enter PHILARIO , IACHIMO , a Frenchman , a Dutchman , and a Spaniard
IACHIMO : Believe it , sir , I have seen him in Britain : he was then of a crescent note , expected to prove so worthy as since he hath been allowed the name of ; but I could then have looked on him without the help of admiration , though the catalogue of his endowments had been tabled by his side and I to peruse him by items .
PHILARIO : You speak of him when he was less furnished than now he is with that which makes him both without and within .
Frenchman : I have seen him in France : we had very many there could behold the sun with as firm eyes as he .
IACHIMO : This matter of marrying his king 's daughter , wherein he must be weighed rather by her value than his own , words him , I doubt not , a great deal from the matter .
Frenchman : And then his banishment .
IACHIMO : Ay , and the approbation of those that weep this lamentable divorce under her colours are wonderfully to extend him ; be it but to fortify her judgment , which else an easy battery might lay flat , for taking a beggar without less quality . But how comes it he is to sojourn with you ? How creeps acquaintance ?
PHILARIO : His father and I were soldiers together ; to whom I have been often bound for no less than my life . Here comes the Briton : let him be so entertained amongst you as suits , with gentlemen of your knowing , to a stranger of his quality . Enter POSTHUMUS LEONATUS I beseech you all , be better known to this gentleman ; whom I commend to you as a noble friend of mine : how worthy he is I will leave to appear hereafter , rather than story him in his own hearing .
Frenchman : Sir , we have known together in Orleans .
