PISANIO : Hence , vile instrument ! Thou shalt not damn my hand .
IMOGEN : Why , I must die ; And if I do not by thy hand , thou art No servant of thy master 's . Against self-slaughter There is a prohibition so divine That cravens my weak hand . Come , here 's my heart . Something 's afore 't . Soft , soft ! we 'll no defence ; Obedient as the scabbard . What is here ? The scriptures of the loyal Leonatus , All turn 'd to heresy ? Away , away , Corrupters of my faith ! you shall no more Be stomachers to my heart . Thus may poor fools Believe false teachers : though those that are betray 'd Do feel the treason sharply , yet the traitor Stands in worse case of woe . And thou , Posthumus , thou that didst set up My disobedience ' gainst the king my father And make me put into contempt the suits Of princely fellows , shalt hereafter find It is no act of common passage , but A strain of rareness : and I grieve myself To think , when thou shalt be disedged by her That now thou tirest on , how thy memory Will then be pang 'd by me . Prithee , dispatch : The lamb entreats the butcher : where 's thy knife ? Thou art too slow to do thy master 's bidding , When I desire it too .
PISANIO : O gracious lady , Since I received command to do this business I have not slept one wink .
IMOGEN : Do 't , and to bed then .
PISANIO : I 'll wake mine eye-balls blind first .
IMOGEN : Wherefore then Didst undertake it ? Why hast thou abused So many miles with a pretence ? this place ? Mine action and thine own ? our horses ' labour ? The time inviting thee ? the perturb 'd court , For my being absent ? whereunto I never Purpose return . Why hast thou gone so far , To be unbent when thou hast ta 'en thy stand , The elected deer before thee ?
PISANIO : But to win time To lose so bad employment ; in the which I have consider 'd of a course . Good lady , Hear me with patience .
IMOGEN : Talk thy tongue weary ; speak I have heard I am a strumpet ; and mine ear Therein false struck , can take no greater wound , Nor tent to bottom that . But speak .
PISANIO : Then , madam , I thought you would not back again .
IMOGEN : Most like ; Bringing me here to kill me .
PISANIO : Not so , neither : But if I were as wise as honest , then My purpose would prove well . It cannot be But that my master is abused : Some villain , ay , and singular in his art . Hath done you both this cursed injury .
IMOGEN : Some Roman courtezan .
PISANIO : No , on my life . I 'll give but notice you are dead and send him Some bloody sign of it ; for ' tis commanded I should do so : you shall be miss 'd at court , And that will well confirm it .
IMOGEN : Why good fellow , What shall I do the where ? where bide ? how live ? Or in my life what comfort , when I am Dead to my husband ?
PISANIO : If you 'll back to the court--
IMOGEN : No court , no father ; nor no more ado With that harsh , noble , simple nothing , That Cloten , whose love-suit hath been to me As fearful as a siege .
PISANIO : If not at court , Then not in Britain must you bide .
IMOGEN : Where then Hath Britain all the sun that shines ? Day , night , Are they not but in Britain ? I ' the world 's volume Our Britain seems as of it , but not in ' t ; In a great pool a swan 's nest : prithee , think There 's livers out of Britain .
