IMOGEN : Thou told 'st me , when we came from horse , the place Was near at hand : ne 'er long 'd my mother so To see me first , as I have now . Pisanio ! man ! Where is Posthumus ? What is in thy mind , That makes thee stare thus ? Wherefore breaks that sigh From the inward of thee ? One , but painted thus , Would be interpreted a thing perplex 'd Beyond self-explication : put thyself Into a havior of less fear , ere wildness Vanquish my staider senses . What 's the matter ? Why tender 'st thou that paper to me , with A look untender ? If 't be summer news , Smile to 't before ; if winterly , thou need 'st But keep that countenance still . My husband 's hand ! That drug-damn 'd Italy hath out-craftied him , And he 's at some hard point . Speak , man : thy tongue May take off some extremity , which to read Would be even mortal to me .
PISANIO : Please you , read ; And you shall find me , wretched man , a thing The most disdain 'd of fortune .
IMOGEN : ' Thy mistress , Pisanio , hath played the strumpet in my bed ; the testimonies whereof lie bleeding in me . I speak not out of weak surmises , but from proof as strong as my grief and as certain as I expect my revenge . That part thou , Pisanio , must act for me , if thy faith be not tainted with the breach of hers . Let thine own hands take away her life : I shall give thee opportunity at Milford-Haven . She hath my letter for the purpose where , if thou fear to strike and to make me certain it is done , thou art the pandar to her dishonour and equally to me disloyal . ' 
PISANIO : What shall I need to draw my sword ? the paper Hath cut her throat already . No , ' tis slander , Whose edge is sharper than the sword , whose tongue Outvenoms all the worms of Nile , whose breath Rides on the posting winds and doth belie All corners of the world : kings , queens and states , Maids , matrons , nay , the secrets of the grave This viperous slander enters . What cheer , madam ?
IMOGEN : False to his bed ! What is it to be false ? To lie in watch there and to think on him ? To weep ' twixt clock and clock ? if sleep charge nature , To break it with a fearful dream of him And cry myself awake ? that 's false to 's bed , is it ?
PISANIO : Alas , good lady !
IMOGEN : I false ! Thy conscience witness : Iachimo , Thou didst accuse him of incontinency ; Thou then look 'dst like a villain ; now methinks Thy favour 's good enough . Some jay of Italy Whose mother was her painting , hath betray 'd him : Poor I am stale , a garment out of fashion ; And , for I am richer than to hang by the walls , I must be ripp 'd : --to pieces with me ! --O , Men 's vows are women 's traitors ! All good seeming , By thy revolt , O husband , shall be thought Put on for villany ; not born where 't grows , But worn a bait for ladies .
PISANIO : Good madam , hear me .
