CLOTEN : Why , so I say .
First Lord : Did you hear of a stranger that 's come to court to-night ?
CLOTEN : A stranger , and I not know on 't !
Second Lord : He 's a strange fellow himself , and knows it not .
First Lord : There 's an Italian come ; and , ' tis thought , one of Leonatus ' friends .
CLOTEN : Leonatus ! a banished rascal ; and he 's another , whatsoever he be . Who told you of this stranger ?
First Lord : One of your lordship 's pages .
CLOTEN : Is it fit I went to look upon him ? is there no derogation in 't ?
Second Lord : You cannot derogate , my lord .
CLOTEN : Not easily , I think .
Second Lord : You are a fool granted ; therefore your issues , being foolish , do not derogate .
CLOTEN : Come , I 'll go see this Italian : what I have lost to-day at bowls I 'll win to-night of him . Come , go .
Second Lord : I 'll attend your lordship . That such a crafty devil as is his mother Should yield the world this ass ! a woman that Bears all down with her brain ; and this her son Cannot take two from twenty , for his heart , And leave eighteen . Alas , poor princess , Thou divine Imogen , what thou endurest , Betwixt a father by thy step-dame govern 'd , A mother hourly coining plots , a wooer More hateful than the foul expulsion is Of thy dear husband , than that horrid act Of the divorce he 'ld make ! The heavens hold firm The walls of thy dear honour , keep unshaked That temple , thy fair mind , that thou mayst stand , To enjoy thy banish 'd lord and this great land ! Exit a trunk in one corner of it . IMOGEN in bed , reading ; a Lady attending
IMOGEN : Who 's there ? my woman Helen ?
Lady : Please you , madam
IMOGEN : What hour is it ?
Lady : Almost midnight , madam .
IMOGEN : I have read three hours then : mine eyes are weak : Fold down the leaf where I have left : to bed : Take not away the taper , leave it burning ; And if thou canst awake by four o ' the clock , I prithee , call me . Sleep hath seized me wholly Exit Lady To your protection I commend me , gods . From fairies and the tempters of the night Guard me , beseech ye . Sleeps . IACHIMO comes from the trunk
