PHILARIO : Sir , be patient : This is not strong enough to be believed Of one persuaded well of--
POSTHUMUS LEONATUS : Never talk on 't ; She hath been colted by him .
IACHIMO : If you seek For further satisfying , under her breast-- Worthy the pressing--lies a mole , right proud Of that most delicate lodging : by my life , I kiss 'd it ; and it gave me present hunger To feed again , though full . You do remember This stain upon her ?
POSTHUMUS LEONATUS : Ay , and it doth confirm Another stain , as big as hell can hold , Were there no more but it .
IACHIMO : Will you hear more ?
POSTHUMUS LEONATUS : Spare your arithmetic : never count the turns ; Once , and a million !
IACHIMO : I 'll be sworn--
POSTHUMUS LEONATUS : No swearing . If you will swear you have not done 't , you lie ; And I will kill thee , if thou dost deny Thou 'st made me cuckold .
IACHIMO : I 'll deny nothing .
POSTHUMUS LEONATUS : O , that I had her here , to tear her limb-meal ! I will go there and do 't , i ' the court , before Her father . I 'll do something-- Exit
PHILARIO : Quite besides The government of patience ! You have won : Let 's follow him , and pervert the present wrath He hath against himself .
IACHIMO : With an my heart . Enter POSTHUMUS LEONATUS
POSTHUMUS LEONATUS : Is there no way for men to be but women Must be half-workers ? We are all bastards ; And that most venerable man which I Did call my father , was I know not where When I was stamp 'd ; some coiner with his tools Made me a counterfeit : yet my mother seem 'd The Dian of that time so doth my wife The nonpareil of this . O , vengeance , vengeance ! Me of my lawful pleasure she restrain 'd And pray 'd me oft forbearance ; did it with A pudency so rosy the sweet view on 't Might well have warm 'd old Saturn ; that I thought her As chaste as unsunn 'd snow . O , all the devils ! This yellow Iachimo , in an hour , --wast not ? -- Or less , --at first ? --perchance he spoke not , but , Like a full-acorn 'd boar , a German one , Cried ' O ! ' and mounted ; found no opposition But what he look 'd for should oppose and she Should from encounter guard . Could I find out The woman 's part in me ! For there 's no motion That tends to vice in man , but I affirm It is the woman 's part : be it lying , note it , The woman 's ; flattering , hers ; deceiving , hers ; Lust and rank thoughts , hers , hers ; revenges , hers ; Ambitions , covetings , change of prides , disdain , Nice longing , slanders , mutability , All faults that may be named , nay , that hell knows , Why , hers , in part or all ; but rather , all ; For even to vice They are not constant but are changing still One vice , but of a minute old , for one Not half so old as that . I 'll write against them , Detest them , curse them : yet ' tis greater skill In a true hate , to pray they have their will : The very devils cannot plague them better . Exit Enter in state , CYMBELINE , QUEEN , CLOTEN , and Lords at one door , and at another , CAIUS LUCIUS and Attendants
CYMBELINE : Now say , what would Augustus Caesar with us ?
CAIUS LUCIUS : When Julius Caesar , whose remembrance yet Lives in men 's eyes and will to ears and tongues Be theme and hearing ever , was in this Britain And conquer 'd it , Cassibelan , thine uncle , -- Famous in Caesar 's praises , no whit less Than in his feats deserving it--for him And his succession granted Rome a tribute , Yearly three thousand pounds , which by thee lately Is left untender 'd .
QUEEN : And , to kill the marvel , Shall be so ever .
