QUEEN : Royal sir , Since the exile of Posthumus , most retired Hath her life been ; the cure whereof , my lord , ' Tis time must do . Beseech your majesty , Forbear sharp speeches to her : she 's a lady So tender of rebukes that words are strokes And strokes death to her . Re-enter Attendant
CYMBELINE : Where is she , sir ? How Can her contempt be answer 'd ?
Attendant : Please you , sir , Her chambers are all lock 'd ; and there 's no answer That will be given to the loudest noise we make .
QUEEN : My lord , when last I went to visit her , She pray 'd me to excuse her keeping close , Whereto constrain 'd by her infirmity , She should that duty leave unpaid to you , Which daily she was bound to proffer : this She wish 'd me to make known ; but our great court Made me to blame in memory .
CYMBELINE : Her doors lock 'd ? Not seen of late ? Grant , heavens , that which I fear Prove false ! Exit
QUEEN : Son , I say , follow the king .
CLOTEN : That man of hers , Pisanio , her old servant , have not seen these two days .
QUEEN : Go , look after . Exit CLOTEN Pisanio , thou that stand 'st so for Posthumus ! He hath a drug of mine ; I pray his absence Proceed by swallowing that , for he believes It is a thing most precious . But for her , Where is she gone ? Haply , despair hath seized her , Or , wing 'd with fervor of her love , she 's flown To her desired Posthumus : gone she is To death or to dishonour ; and my end Can make good use of either : she being down , I have the placing of the British crown . Re-enter CLOTEN How now , my son !
CLOTEN : ' Tis certain she is fled . Go in and cheer the king : he rages ; none Dare come about him .
QUEEN : All the better : may This night forestall him of the coming day ! Exit
CLOTEN : I love and hate her : for she 's fair and royal , And that she hath all courtly parts more exquisite Than lady , ladies , woman ; from every one The best she hath , and she , of all compounded , Outsells them all ; I love her therefore : but Disdaining me and throwing favours on The low Posthumus slanders so her judgment That what 's else rare is choked ; and in that point I will conclude to hate her , nay , indeed , To be revenged upon her . For when fools Shall-- Enter PISANIO Who is here ? What , are you packing , sirrah ? Come hither : ah , you precious pander ! Villain , Where is thy lady ? In a word ; or else Thou art straightway with the fiends .
PISANIO : O , good my lord !
CLOTEN : Where is thy lady ? Or , by Jupiter , -- I will not ask again . Close villain , I 'll have this secret from thy heart , or rip Thy heart to find it . Is she with Posthumus ? From whose so many weights of baseness cannot A dram of worth be drawn .
PISANIO : Alas , my lord , How can she be with him ? When was she missed ? He is in Rome .
CLOTEN : Where is she , sir ? Come nearer ; No further halting : satisfy me home What is become of her .
PISANIO : O , my all-worthy lord !
CLOTEN : All-worthy villain ! Discover where thy mistress is at once , At the next word : no more of ' worthy lord ! ' Speak , or thy silence on the instant is Thy condemnation and thy death .
PISANIO : Then , sir , This paper is the history of my knowledge Touching her flight . Presenting a letter
CLOTEN : Let 's see 't . I will pursue her Even to Augustus ' throne .
PISANIO : Or this , or perish . She 's far enough ; and what he learns by this May prove his travel , not her danger .
