IMOGEN : Almost , sir : heaven restore me ! Would I were A neat-herd 's daughter , and my Leonatus Our neighbour shepherd 's son !
CYMBELINE : Thou foolish thing ! Re-enter QUEEN They were again together : you have done Not after our command . Away with her , And pen her up .
QUEEN : Beseech your patience . Peace , Dear lady daughter , peace ! Sweet sovereign , Leave us to ourselves ; and make yourself some comfort Out of your best advice .
CYMBELINE : Nay , let her languish A drop of blood a day ; and , being aged , Die of this folly !
QUEEN : Fie ! you must give way . Enter PISANIO Here is your servant . How now , sir ! What news ?
PISANIO : My lord your son drew on my master .
QUEEN : Ha ! No harm , I trust , is done ?
PISANIO : There might have been , But that my master rather play 'd than fought And had no help of anger : they were parted By gentlemen at hand .
QUEEN : I am very glad on 't .
IMOGEN : Your son 's my father 's friend ; he takes his part . To draw upon an exile ! O brave sir ! I would they were in Afric both together ; Myself by with a needle , that I might prick The goer-back . Why came you from your master ?
PISANIO : On his command : he would not suffer me To bring him to the haven ; left these notes Of what commands I should be subject to , When ' t pleased you to employ me .
QUEEN : This hath been Your faithful servant : I dare lay mine honour He will remain so .
PISANIO : I humbly thank your highness .
QUEEN : Pray , walk awhile .
IMOGEN : About some half-hour hence , I pray you , speak with me : you shall at least Go see my lord aboard : for this time leave me . Enter CLOTEN and two Lords
First Lord : Sir , I would advise you to shift a shirt ; the violence of action hath made you reek as a sacrifice : where air comes out , air comes in : there 's none abroad so wholesome as that you vent .
CLOTEN : If my shirt were bloody , then to shift it . Have I hurt him ?
Second Lord : No , ' faith ; not so much as his patience .
First Lord : Hurt him ! his body 's a passable carcass , if he be not hurt : it is a thoroughfare for steel , if it be not hurt .
Second Lord : His steel was in debt ; it went o ' the backside the town .
CLOTEN : The villain would not stand me .
Second Lord : No ; but he fled forward still , toward your face .
First Lord : Stand you ! You have land enough of your own : but he added to your having ; gave you some ground .
Second Lord : As many inches as you have oceans . Puppies !
CLOTEN : I would they had not come between us .
Second Lord : So would I , till you had measured how long a fool you were upon the ground .
CLOTEN : And that she should love this fellow and refuse me !
Second Lord : If it be a sin to make a true election , she is damned .
First Lord : Sir , as I told you always , her beauty and her brain go not together : she 's a good sign , but I have seen small reflection of her wit .
Second Lord : She shines not upon fools , lest the reflection should hurt her .
CLOTEN : Come , I 'll to my chamber . Would there had been some hurt done !
Second Lord : I wish not so ; unless it had been the fall of an ass , which is no great hurt .
CLOTEN : You 'll go with us ?
First Lord : I 'll attend your lordship .
CLOTEN : Nay , come , let 's go together .
Second Lord : Well , my lord . Enter IMOGEN and PISANIO
