Lady : Who 's there that knocks ?
CLOTEN : A gentleman .
Lady : No more ?
CLOTEN : Yes , and a gentlewoman 's son .
Lady : That 's more Than some , whose tailors are as dear as yours , Can justly boast of . What 's your lordship 's pleasure ?
CLOTEN : Your lady 's person : is she ready ?
Lady : Ay , To keep her chamber .
CLOTEN : There is gold for you ; Sell me your good report .
Lady : How ! my good name ? or to report of you What I shall think is good ? --The princess ! Enter IMOGEN
CLOTEN : Good morrow , fairest : sister , your sweet hand . Exit Lady
IMOGEN : Good morrow , sir . You lay out too much pains For purchasing but trouble ; the thanks I give Is telling you that I am poor of thanks And scarce can spare them .
CLOTEN : Still , I swear I love you .
IMOGEN : If you but said so , ' twere as deep with me : If you swear still , your recompense is still That I regard it not .
CLOTEN : This is no answer .
IMOGEN : But that you shall not say I yield being silent , I would not speak . I pray you , spare me : ' faith , I shall unfold equal discourtesy To your best kindness : one of your great knowing Should learn , being taught , forbearance .
CLOTEN : To leave you in your madness , ' twere my sin : I will not .
IMOGEN : Fools are not mad folks .
CLOTEN : Do you call me fool ?
IMOGEN : As I am mad , I do : If you 'll be patient , I 'll no more be mad ; That cures us both . I am much sorry , sir , You put me to forget a lady 's manners , By being so verbal : and learn now , for all , That I , which know my heart , do here pronounce , By the very truth of it , I care not for you , And am so near the lack of charity-- To accuse myself--I hate you ; which I had rather You felt than make 't my boast .
CLOTEN : You sin against Obedience , which you owe your father . For The contract you pretend with that base wretch , One bred of alms and foster 'd with cold dishes , With scraps o ' the court , it is no contract , none : And though it be allow 'd in meaner parties-- Yet who than he more mean ? --to knit their souls , On whom there is no more dependency But brats and beggary , in self-figured knot ; Yet you are curb 'd from that enlargement by The consequence o ' the crown , and must not soil The precious note of it with a base slave . A hilding for a livery , a squire 's cloth , A pantler , not so eminent .
IMOGEN : Profane fellow Wert thou the son of Jupiter and no more But what thou art besides , thou wert too base To be his groom : thou wert dignified enough , Even to the point of envy , if ' twere made Comparative for your virtues , to be styled The under-hangman of his kingdom , and hated For being preferred so well .
CLOTEN : The south-fog rot him !
IMOGEN : He never can meet more mischance than come To be but named of thee . His meanest garment , That ever hath but clipp 'd his body , is dearer In my respect than all the hairs above thee , Were they all made such men . How now , Pisanio ! Enter PISANIO
CLOTEN : ' His garment ! ' Now the devil--
IMOGEN : To Dorothy my woman hie thee presently--
CLOTEN : ' His garment ! '
