POSTHUMUS LEONATUS : You are a great deal abused in too bold a persuasion ; and I doubt not you sustain what you 're worthy of by your attempt .
IACHIMO : What 's that ?
POSTHUMUS LEONATUS : A repulse : though your attempt , as you call it , deserve more ; a punishment too .
PHILARIO : Gentlemen , enough of this : it came in too suddenly ; let it die as it was born , and , I pray you , be better acquainted .
IACHIMO : Would I had put my estate and my neighbour 's on the approbation of what I have spoke !
POSTHUMUS LEONATUS : What lady would you choose to assail ?
IACHIMO : Yours ; whom in constancy you think stands so safe . I will lay you ten thousand ducats to your ring , that , commend me to the court where your lady is , with no more advantage than the opportunity of a second conference , and I will bring from thence that honour of hers which you imagine so reserved .
POSTHUMUS LEONATUS : I will wage against your gold , gold to it : my ring I hold dear as my finger ; ' tis part of it .
IACHIMO : You are afraid , and therein the wiser . If you buy ladies ' flesh at a million a dram , you cannot preserve it from tainting : but I see you have some religion in you , that you fear .
POSTHUMUS LEONATUS : This is but a custom in your tongue ; you bear a graver purpose , I hope .
IACHIMO : I am the master of my speeches , and would undergo what 's spoken , I swear .
POSTHUMUS LEONATUS : Will you ? I shall but lend my diamond till your return : let there be covenants drawn between 's : my mistress exceeds in goodness the hugeness of your unworthy thinking : I dare you to this match : here 's my ring .
PHILARIO : I will have it no lay .
IACHIMO : By the gods , it is one . If I bring you no sufficient testimony that I have enjoyed the dearest bodily part of your mistress , my ten thousand ducats are yours ; so is your diamond too : if I come off , and leave her in such honour as you have trust in , she your jewel , this your jewel , and my gold are yours : provided I have your commendation for my more free entertainment .
POSTHUMUS LEONATUS : I embrace these conditions ; let us have articles betwixt us . Only , thus far you shall answer : if you make your voyage upon her and give me directly to understand you have prevailed , I am no further your enemy ; she is not worth our debate : if she remain unseduced , you not making it appear otherwise , for your ill opinion and the assault you have made to her chastity you shall answer me with your sword .
IACHIMO : Your hand ; a covenant : we will have these things set down by lawful counsel , and straight away for Britain , lest the bargain should catch cold and starve : I will fetch my gold and have our two wagers recorded .
POSTHUMUS LEONATUS : Agreed .
Frenchman : Will this hold , think you ?
PHILARIO : Signior Iachimo will not from it . Pray , let us follow ' em . Enter QUEEN , Ladies , and CORNELIUS
QUEEN : Whiles yet the dew 's on ground , gather those flowers ; Make haste : who has the note of them ?
First Lady : I , madam .
QUEEN : Dispatch . Now , master doctor , have you brought those drugs ?
CORNELIUS : Pleaseth your highness , ay : here they are , madam : Presenting a small box But I beseech your grace , without offence , -- My conscience bids me ask--wherefore you have Commanded of me those most poisonous compounds , Which are the movers of a languishing death ; But though slow , deadly ?
