CYMBELINE : And thou shalt die for 't .
BELARIUS : We will die all three : But I will prove that two on 's are as good As I have given out him . My sons , I must , For mine own part , unfold a dangerous speech , Though , haply , well for you .
ARVIRAGUS : Your danger 's ours .
GUIDERIUS : And our good his .
BELARIUS : Have at it then , by leave . Thou hadst , great king , a subject who Was call 'd Belarius .
CYMBELINE : What of him ? he is A banish 'd traitor .
BELARIUS : He it is that hath Assumed this age ; indeed a banish 'd man ; I know not how a traitor .
CYMBELINE : Take him hence : The whole world shall not save him .
BELARIUS : Not too hot : First pay me for the nursing of thy sons ; And let it be confiscate all , so soon As I have received it .
CYMBELINE : Nursing of my sons !
BELARIUS : I am too blunt and saucy : here 's my knee : Ere I arise , I will prefer my sons ; Then spare not the old father . Mighty sir , These two young gentlemen , that call me father And think they are my sons , are none of mine ; They are the issue of your loins , my liege , And blood of your begetting .
CYMBELINE : How ! my issue !
BELARIUS : So sure as you your father 's . I , old Morgan , Am that Belarius whom you sometime banish 'd : Your pleasure was my mere offence , my punishment Itself , and all my treason ; that I suffer 'd Was all the harm I did . These gentle princes-- For such and so they are--these twenty years Have I train 'd up : those arts they have as I Could put into them ; my breeding was , sir , as Your highness knows . Their nurse , Euriphile , Whom for the theft I wedded , stole these children Upon my banishment : I moved her to 't , Having received the punishment before , For that which I did then : beaten for loyalty Excited me to treason : their dear loss , The more of you ' twas felt , the more it shaped Unto my end of stealing them . But , gracious sir , Here are your sons again ; and I must lose Two of the sweet 'st companions in the world . The benediction of these covering heavens Fall on their heads like dew ! for they are worthy To inlay heaven with stars .
CYMBELINE : Thou weep 'st , and speak 'st . The service that you three have done is more Unlike than this thou tell 'st . I lost my children : If these be they , I know not how to wish A pair of worthier sons .
BELARIUS : Be pleased awhile . This gentleman , whom I call Polydore , Most worthy prince , as yours , is true Guiderius : This gentleman , my Cadwal , Arviragus , Your younger princely son ; he , sir , was lapp 'd In a most curious mantle , wrought by the hand Of his queen mother , which for more probation I can with ease produce .
CYMBELINE : Guiderius had Upon his neck a mole , a sanguine star ; It was a mark of wonder .
BELARIUS : This is he ; Who hath upon him still that natural stamp : It was wise nature 's end in the donation , To be his evidence now .
CYMBELINE : O , what , am I A mother to the birth of three ? Ne 'er mother Rejoiced deliverance more . Blest pray you be , That , after this strange starting from your orbs , may reign in them now ! O Imogen , Thou hast lost by this a kingdom .
IMOGEN : No , my lord ; I have got two worlds by ' t . O my gentle brothers , Have we thus met ? O , never say hereafter But I am truest speaker you call 'd me brother , When I was but your sister ; I you brothers , When ye were so indeed .
CYMBELINE : Did you e 'er meet ?
