CORNELIUS : Your highness Shall from this practise but make hard your heart : Besides , the seeing these effects will be Both noisome and infectious .
QUEEN : O , content thee . Enter PISANIO Aside Here comes a flattering rascal ; upon him Will I first work : he 's for his master , An enemy to my son . How now , Pisanio ! Doctor , your service for this time is ended ; Take your own way .
CORNELIUS : I do suspect you , madam ; But you shall do no harm .
QUEEN : Hark thee , a word .
CORNELIUS : I do not like her . She doth think she has Strange lingering poisons : I do know her spirit , And will not trust one of her malice with A drug of such damn 'd nature . Those she has Will stupefy and dull the sense awhile ; Which first , perchance , she 'll prove on cats and dogs , Then afterward up higher : but there is No danger in what show of death it makes , More than the locking-up the spirits a time , To be more fresh , reviving . She is fool 'd With a most false effect ; and I the truer , So to be false with her .
QUEEN : No further service , doctor , Until I send for thee .
CORNELIUS : I humbly take my leave . Exit
QUEEN : Weeps she still , say 'st thou ? Dost thou think in time She will not quench and let instructions enter Where folly now possesses ? Do thou work : When thou shalt bring me word she loves my son , I 'll tell thee on the instant thou art then As great as is thy master , greater , for His fortunes all lie speechless and his name Is at last gasp : return he cannot , nor Continue where he is : to shift his being Is to exchange one misery with another , And every day that comes comes to decay A day 's work in him . What shalt thou expect , To be depender on a thing that leans , Who cannot be new built , nor has no friends , So much as but to prop him ? The QUEEN drops the box : PISANIO takes it up Thou takest up Thou know 'st not what ; but take it for thy labour : It is a thing I made , which hath the king Five times redeem 'd from death : I do not know What is more cordial . Nay , I prethee , take it ; It is an earnest of a further good That I mean to thee . Tell thy mistress how The case stands with her ; do 't as from thyself . Think what a chance thou changest on , but think Thou hast thy mistress still , to boot , my son , Who shall take notice of thee : I 'll move the king To any shape of thy preferment such As thou 'lt desire ; and then myself , I chiefly , That set thee on to this desert , am bound To load thy merit richly . Call my women : Think on my words . Exit PISANIO A sly and constant knave , Not to be shaked ; the agent for his master And the remembrancer of her to hold The hand-fast to her lord . I have given him that Which , if he take , shall quite unpeople her Of liegers for her sweet , and which she after , Except she bend her humour , shall be assured To taste of too . Re-enter PISANIO and Ladies So , so : well done , well done : The violets , cowslips , and the primroses , Bear to my closet . Fare thee well , Pisanio ; Think on my words .
PISANIO : And shall do : But when to my good lord I prove untrue , I 'll choke myself : there 's all I 'll do for you . Exit Enter IMOGEN
