PISANIO : Madam , a noble gentleman of Rome , Comes from my lord with letters .
IACHIMO : Change you , madam ? The worthy Leonatus is in safety And greets your highness dearly . Presents a letter
IMOGEN : Thanks , good sir : You 're kindly welcome .
IACHIMO : All of her that is out of door most rich ! If she be furnish 'd with a mind so rare , She is alone the Arabian bird , and I Have lost the wager . Boldness be my friend ! Arm me , audacity , from head to foot ! Or , like the Parthian , I shall flying fight ; Rather directly fly .
IMOGEN : ' He is one of the noblest note , to whose kindnesses I am most infinitely tied . Reflect upon him accordingly , as you value your trust-- LEONATUS . ' So far I read aloud : But even the very middle of my heart Is warm 'd by the rest , and takes it thankfully . You are as welcome , worthy sir , as I Have words to bid you , and shall find it so In all that I can do .
IACHIMO : Thanks , fairest lady . What , are men mad ? Hath nature given them eyes To see this vaulted arch , and the rich crop Of sea and land , which can distinguish ' twixt The fiery orbs above and the twinn 'd stones Upon the number 'd beach ? and can we not Partition make with spectacles so precious ' Twixt fair and foul ?
IMOGEN : What makes your admiration ?
IACHIMO : It cannot be i ' the eye , for apes and monkeys ' Twixt two such shes would chatter this way and Contemn with mows the other ; nor i ' the judgment , For idiots in this case of favour would Be wisely definite ; nor i ' the appetite ; Sluttery to such neat excellence opposed Should make desire vomit emptiness , Not so allured to feed .
IMOGEN : What is the matter , trow ?
IACHIMO : The cloyed will , That satiate yet unsatisfied desire , that tub Both fill 'd and running , ravening first the lamb Longs after for the garbage .
IMOGEN : What , dear sir , Thus raps you ? Are you well ?
IACHIMO : Thanks , madam ; well . To PISANIO Beseech you , sir , desire My man 's abode where I did leave him : he Is strange and peevish .
PISANIO : I was going , sir , To give him welcome . Exit
IMOGEN : Continues well my lord ? His health , beseech you ?
IACHIMO : Well , madam .
IMOGEN : Is he disposed to mirth ? I hope he is .
IACHIMO : Exceeding pleasant ; none a stranger there So merry and so gamesome : he is call 'd The Briton reveller .
IMOGEN : When he was here , He did incline to sadness , and oft-times Not knowing why .
IACHIMO : I never saw him sad . There is a Frenchman his companion , one An eminent monsieur , that , it seems , much loves A Gallian girl at home ; he furnaces The thick sighs from him , whiles the jolly Briton-- Your lord , I mean--laughs from 's free lungs , cries ' O , Can my sides hold , to think that man , who knows By history , report , or his own proof , What woman is , yea , what she cannot choose But must be , will his free hours languish for Assured bondage ? '
IMOGEN : Will my lord say so ?
IACHIMO : Ay , madam , with his eyes in flood with laughter : It is a recreation to be by And hear him mock the Frenchman . But , heavens know , Some men are much to blame .
IMOGEN : Not he , I hope .
IACHIMO : Not he : but yet heaven 's bounty towards him might Be used more thankfully . In himself , ' tis much ; In you , which I account his beyond all talents , Whilst I am bound to wonder , I am bound To pity too .
IMOGEN : What do you pity , sir ?
IACHIMO : Two creatures heartily .
