IMOGEN : How now , Pisanio !
PISANIO : Madam , here is a letter from my lord .
IMOGEN : Who ? thy lord ? that is my lord , Leonatus ! O , learn 'd indeed were that astronomer That knew the stars as I his characters ; He 'ld lay the future open . You good gods , Let what is here contain 'd relish of love , Of my lord 's health , of his content , yet not That we two are asunder ; let that grieve him : Some griefs are med 'cinable ; that is one of them , For it doth physic love : of his content , All but in that ! Good wax , thy leave . Blest be You bees that make these locks of counsel ! Lovers And men in dangerous bonds pray not alike : Though forfeiters you cast in prison , yet You clasp young Cupid 's tables . Good news , gods ! Reads ' Justice , and your father 's wrath , should he take me in his dominion , could not be so cruel to me , as you , O the dearest of creatures , would even renew me with your eyes . Take notice that I am in Cambria , at Milford-Haven : what your own love will out of this advise you , follow . So he wishes you all happiness , that remains loyal to his vow , and your , increasing in love , LEONATUS POSTHUMUS . ' O , for a horse with wings ! Hear 'st thou , Pisanio ? He is at Milford-Haven : read , and tell me How far ' tis thither . If one of mean affairs May plod it in a week , why may not I Glide thither in a day ? Then , true Pisanio , -- Who long 'st , like me , to see thy lord ; who long 'st , -- let me bate , -but not like me--yet long 'st , But in a fainter kind : --O , not like me ; For mine 's beyond beyond--say , and speak thick ; Love 's counsellor should fill the bores of hearing , To the smothering of the sense--how far it is To this same blessed Milford : and by the way Tell me how Wales was made so happy as To inherit such a haven : but first of all , How we may steal from hence , and for the gap That we shall make in time , from our hence-going And our return , to excuse : but first , how get hence : Why should excuse be born or e 'er begot ? We 'll talk of that hereafter . Prithee , speak , How many score of miles may we well ride ' Twixt hour and hour ?
PISANIO : One score ' twixt sun and sun , Madam , ' s enough for you : Aside and too much too .
IMOGEN : Why , one that rode to 's execution , man , Could never go so slow : I have heard of riding wagers , Where horses have been nimbler than the sands That run i ' the clock 's behalf . But this is foolery : Go bid my woman feign a sickness ; say She 'll home to her father : and provide me presently A riding-suit , no costlier than would fit A franklin 's housewife .
PISANIO : Madam , you 're best consider .
IMOGEN : I see before me , man : nor here , nor here , Nor what ensues , but have a fog in them , That I cannot look through . Away , I prithee ; Do as I bid thee : there 's no more to say , Accessible is none but Milford way . Enter , from the cave , BELARIUS ; GUIDERIUS , and ARVIRAGUS following
BELARIUS : A goodly day not to keep house , with such Whose roof 's as low as ours ! Stoop , boys ; this gate Instructs you how to adore the heavens and bows you To a morning 's holy office : the gates of monarchs Are arch 'd so high that giants may jet through And keep their impious turbans on , without Good morrow to the sun . Hail , thou fair heaven ! We house i ' the rock , yet use thee not so hardly As prouder livers do .
