First Gentleman : You do not meet a man but frowns : our bloods No more obey the heavens than our courtiers Still seem as does the king .
Second Gentleman : But what 's the matter ?
First Gentleman : His daughter , and the heir of 's kingdom , whom He purposed to his wife 's sole son--a widow That late he married--hath referr 'd herself Unto a poor but worthy gentleman : she 's wedded ; Her husband banish 'd ; she imprison 'd : all Is outward sorrow ; though I think the king Be touch 'd at very heart .
Second Gentleman : None but the king ?
First Gentleman : He that hath lost her too ; so is the queen , That most desired the match ; but not a courtier , Although they wear their faces to the bent Of the king 's look 's , hath a heart that is not Glad at the thing they scowl at .
Second Gentleman : And why so ?
First Gentleman : He that hath miss 'd the princess is a thing Too bad for bad report : and he that hath her-- I mean , that married her , alack , good man ! And therefore banish 'd--is a creature such As , to seek through the regions of the earth For one his like , there would be something failing In him that should compare . I do not think So fair an outward and such stuff within Endows a man but he .
Second Gentleman : You speak him far .
First Gentleman : I do extend him , sir , within himself , Crush him together rather than unfold His measure duly .
Second Gentleman : What 's his name and birth ?
First Gentleman : I cannot delve him to the root : his father Was call 'd Sicilius , who did join his honour Against the Romans with Cassibelan , But had his titles by Tenantius whom He served with glory and admired success , So gain 'd the sur-addition Leonatus ; And had , besides this gentleman in question , Two other sons , who in the wars o ' the time Died with their swords in hand ; for which their father , Then old and fond of issue , took such sorrow That he quit being , and his gentle lady , Big of this gentleman our theme , deceased As he was born . The king he takes the babe To his protection , calls him Posthumus Leonatus , Breeds him and makes him of his bed-chamber , Puts to him all the learnings that his time Could make him the receiver of ; which he took , As we do air , fast as ' twas minister 'd , And in 's spring became a harvest , lived in court-- Which rare it is to do--most praised , most loved , A sample to the youngest , to the more mature A glass that feated them , and to the graver A child that guided dotards ; to his mistress , For whom he now is banish 'd , her own price Proclaims how she esteem 'd him and his virtue ; By her election may be truly read What kind of man he is .
Second Gentleman : I honour him Even out of your report . But , pray you , tell me , Is she sole child to the king ?
First Gentleman : His only child . He had two sons : if this be worth your hearing , Mark it : the eldest of them at three years old , I ' the swathing-clothes the other , from their nursery Were stol 'n , and to this hour no guess in knowledge Which way they went .
Second Gentleman : How long is this ago ?
First Gentleman : Some twenty years .
Second Gentleman : That a king 's children should be so convey 'd , So slackly guarded , and the search so slow , That could not trace them !
First Gentleman : Howsoe 'er ' tis strange , Or that the negligence may well be laugh 'd at , Yet is it true , sir .
Second Gentleman : I do well believe you .
First Gentleman : We must forbear : here comes the gentleman , The queen , and princess . Enter the QUEEN , POSTHUMUS LEONATUS , and IMOGEN
