CYMBELINE : To my grief , I am The heir of his reward ; To BELARIUS , GUIDERIUS , and ARVIRAGUS which I will add To you , the liver , heart and brain of Britain , By whom I grant she lives . ' Tis now the time To ask of whence you are . Report it .
BELARIUS : Sir , In Cambria are we born , and gentlemen : Further to boast were neither true nor modest , Unless I add , we are honest .
CYMBELINE : Bow your knees . Arise my knights o ' the battle : I create you Companions to our person and will fit you With dignities becoming your estates . Enter CORNELIUS and Ladies There 's business in these faces . Why so sadly Greet you our victory ? you look like Romans , And not o ' the court of Britain .
CORNELIUS : Hail , great king ! To sour your happiness , I must report The queen is dead .
CYMBELINE : Who worse than a physician Would this report become ? But I consider , By medicine life may be prolong 'd , yet death Will seize the doctor too . How ended she ?
CORNELIUS : With horror , madly dying , like her life , Which , being cruel to the world , concluded Most cruel to herself . What she confess 'd I will report , so please you : these her women Can trip me , if I err ; who with wet cheeks Were present when she finish 'd .
CYMBELINE : Prithee , say .
CORNELIUS : First , she confess 'd she never loved you , only Affected greatness got by you , not you : Married your royalty , was wife to your place ; Abhorr 'd your person .
CYMBELINE : She alone knew this ; And , but she spoke it dying , I would not Believe her lips in opening it . Proceed .
CORNELIUS : Your daughter , whom she bore in hand to love With such integrity , she did confess Was as a scorpion to her sight ; whose life , But that her flight prevented it , she had Ta 'en off by poison .
CYMBELINE : O most delicate fiend ! Who is ' t can read a woman ? Is there more ?
CORNELIUS : More , sir , and worse . She did confess she had For you a mortal mineral ; which , being took , Should by the minute feed on life and lingering By inches waste you : in which time she purposed , By watching , weeping , tendance , kissing , to O 'ercome you with her show , and in time , When she had fitted you with her craft , to work Her son into the adoption of the crown : But , failing of her end by his strange absence , Grew shameless-desperate ; open 'd , in despite Of heaven and men , her purposes ; repented The evils she hatch 'd were not effected ; so Despairing died .
CYMBELINE : Heard you all this , her women ?
First Lady : We did , so please your highness .
CYMBELINE : Mine eyes Were not in fault , for she was beautiful ; Mine ears , that heard her flattery ; nor my heart , That thought her like her seeming ; it had been vicious To have mistrusted her : yet , O my daughter ! That it was folly in me , thou mayst say , And prove it in thy feeling . Heaven mend all ! Enter LUCIUS , IACHIMO , the Soothsayer , and other Roman Prisoners , guarded ; POSTHUMUS LEONATUS behind , and IMOGEN Thou comest not , Caius , now for tribute that The Britons have razed out , though with the loss Of many a bold one ; whose kinsmen have made suit That their good souls may be appeased with slaughter Of you their captives , which ourself have granted : So think of your estate .
