IMOGEN : You make amends .
IACHIMO : He sits ' mongst men like a descended god : He hath a kind of honour sets him off , More than a mortal seeming . Be not angry , Most mighty princess , that I have adventured To try your taking a false report ; which hath Honour 'd with confirmation your great judgment In the election of a sir so rare , Which you know cannot err : the love I bear him Made me to fan you thus , but the gods made you , Unlike all others , chaffless . Pray , your pardon .
IMOGEN : All 's well , sir : take my power i ' the court for yours .
IACHIMO : My humble thanks . I had almost forgot To entreat your grace but in a small request , And yet of moment to , for it concerns Your lord ; myself and other noble friends , Are partners in the business .
IMOGEN : Pray , what is 't ?
IACHIMO : Some dozen Romans of us and your lord-- The best feather of our wing--have mingled sums To buy a present for the emperor Which I , the factor for the rest , have done In France : ' tis plate of rare device , and jewels Of rich and exquisite form ; their values great ; And I am something curious , being strange , To have them in safe stowage : may it please you To take them in protection ?
IMOGEN : Willingly ; And pawn mine honour for their safety : since My lord hath interest in them , I will keep them In my bedchamber .
IACHIMO : They are in a trunk , Attended by my men : I will make bold To send them to you , only for this night ; I must aboard to-morrow .
IMOGEN : O , no , no .
IACHIMO : Yes , I beseech ; or I shall short my word By lengthening my return . From Gallia I cross 'd the seas on purpose and on promise To see your grace .
IMOGEN : I thank you for your pains : But not away to-morrow !
IACHIMO : O , I must , madam : Therefore I shall beseech you , if you please To greet your lord with writing , do 't to-night : I have outstood my time ; which is material To the tender of our present .
IMOGEN : I will write . Send your trunk to me ; it shall safe be kept , And truly yielded you . You 're very welcome . Enter CLOTEN and two Lords
CLOTEN : Was there ever man had such luck ! when I kissed the jack , upon an up-cast to be hit away ! I had a hundred pound on 't : and then a whoreson jackanapes must take me up for swearing ; as if I borrowed mine oaths of him and might not spend them at my pleasure .
First Lord : What got he by that ? You have broke his pate with your bowl .
Second Lord : If his wit had been like him that broke it , it would have run all out .
CLOTEN : When a gentleman is disposed to swear , it is not for any standers-by to curtail his oaths , ha ?
Second Lord : No my lord ; Aside nor crop the ears of them .
CLOTEN : Whoreson dog ! I give him satisfaction ? Would he had been one of my rank !
Second Lord : To have smelt like a fool .
CLOTEN : I am not vexed more at any thing in the earth : a pox on 't ! I had rather not be so noble as I am ; they dare not fight with me , because of the queen my mother : every Jack-slave hath his bellyful of fighting , and I must go up and down like a cock that nobody can match .
Second Lord : You are cock and capon too ; and you crow , cock , with your comb on .
CLOTEN : Sayest thou ?
Second Lord : It is not fit your lordship should undertake every companion that you give offence to .
CLOTEN : No , I know that : but it is fit I should commit offence to my inferiors .
