POSTHUMUS LEONATUS : Please your highness , I will from hence to-day .
QUEEN : You know the peril . I 'll fetch a turn about the garden , pitying The pangs of barr 'd affections , though the king Hath charged you should not speak together . Exit
IMOGEN : O Dissembling courtesy ! How fine this tyrant Can tickle where she wounds ! My dearest husband , I something fear my father 's wrath ; but nothing-- Always reserved my holy duty--what His rage can do on me : you must be gone ; And I shall here abide the hourly shot Of angry eyes , not comforted to live , But that there is this jewel in the world That I may see again .
POSTHUMUS LEONATUS : My queen ! my mistress ! O lady , weep no more , lest I give cause To be suspected of more tenderness Than doth become a man . I will remain The loyal 'st husband that did e 'er plight troth : My residence in Rome at one Philario 's , Who to my father was a friend , to me Known but by letter : thither write , my queen , And with mine eyes I 'll drink the words you send , Though ink be made of gall . Re-enter QUEEN
QUEEN : Be brief , I pray you : If the king come , I shall incur I know not How much of his displeasure . Aside Yet I 'll move him To walk this way : I never do him wrong , But he does buy my injuries , to be friends ; Pays dear for my offences . Exit
POSTHUMUS LEONATUS : Should we be taking leave As long a term as yet we have to live , The loathness to depart would grow . Adieu !
IMOGEN : Nay , stay a little : Were you but riding forth to air yourself , Such parting were too petty . Look here , love ; This diamond was my mother 's : take it , heart ; But keep it till you woo another wife , When Imogen is dead .
POSTHUMUS LEONATUS : How , how ! another ? You gentle gods , give me but this I have , And sear up my embracements from a next With bonds of death ! Putting on the ring Remain , remain thou here While sense can keep it on . And , sweetest , fairest , As I my poor self did exchange for you , To your so infinite loss , so in our trifles I still win of you : for my sake wear this ; It is a manacle of love ; I 'll place it Upon this fairest prisoner . Putting a bracelet upon her arm
IMOGEN : O the gods ! When shall we see again ? Enter CYMBELINE and Lords
POSTHUMUS LEONATUS : Alack , the king !
CYMBELINE : Thou basest thing , avoid ! hence , from my sight ! If after this command thou fraught the court With thy unworthiness , thou diest : away ! Thou 'rt poison to my blood .
POSTHUMUS LEONATUS : The gods protect you ! And bless the good remainders of the court ! I am gone . Exit
IMOGEN : There cannot be a pinch in death More sharp than this is .
CYMBELINE : O disloyal thing , That shouldst repair my youth , thou heap 'st A year 's age on me .
IMOGEN : I beseech you , sir , Harm not yourself with your vexation I am senseless of your wrath ; a touch more rare Subdues all pangs , all fears .
CYMBELINE : Past grace ? obedience ?
IMOGEN : Past hope , and in despair ; that way , past grace .
CYMBELINE : That mightst have had the sole son of my queen !
IMOGEN : O blest , that I might not ! I chose an eagle , And did avoid a puttock .
CYMBELINE : Thou took 'st a beggar ; wouldst have made my throne A seat for baseness .
IMOGEN : No ; I rather added A lustre to it .
CYMBELINE : O thou vile one !
IMOGEN : Sir , It is your fault that I have loved Posthumus : You bred him as my playfellow , and he is A man worth any woman , overbuys me Almost the sum he pays .
