Scene III : An ante-chamber adjoining Imogen 's apartments . Enter CLOTEN and Lords
First Lord : Your lordship is the most patient man in loss , the most coldest that ever turned up ace .
CLOTEN : It would make any man cold to lose .
First Lord : But not every man patient after the noble temper of your lordship . You are most hot and furious when you win .
CLOTEN : Winning will put any man into courage . If I could get this foolish Imogen , I should have gold enough . It 's almost morning , is 't not ?
First Lord : Day , my lord .
CLOTEN : I would this music would come : I am advised to give her music o ' mornings ; they say it will penetrate . Enter Musicians Come on ; tune : if you can penetrate her with your fingering , so ; we 'll try with tongue too : if none will do , let her remain ; but I 'll never give o 'er . First , a very excellent good-conceited thing ; after , a wonderful sweet air , with admirable rich words to it : and then let her consider . SONG Hark , hark ! the lark at heaven 's gate sings , And Phoebus ' gins arise , His steeds to water at those springs On chaliced flowers that lies ; And winking Mary-buds begin To ope their golden eyes : With every thing that pretty is , My lady sweet , arise : Arise , arise .
CLOTEN : So , get you gone . If this penetrate , I will consider your music the better : if it do not , it is a vice in her ears , which horse-hairs and calves ' -guts , nor the voice of unpaved eunuch to boot , can never amend .
Second Lord : Here comes the king .
CLOTEN : I am glad I was up so late ; for that 's the reason I was up so early : he cannot choose but take this service I have done fatherly . Enter CYMBELINE and QUEEN Good morrow to your majesty and to my gracious mother .
CYMBELINE : Attend you here the door of our stern daughter ? Will she not forth ?
CLOTEN : I have assailed her with music , but she vouchsafes no notice .
CYMBELINE : The exile of her minion is too new ; She hath not yet forgot him : some more time Must wear the print of his remembrance out , And then she 's yours .
QUEEN : You are most bound to the king , Who lets go by no vantages that may Prefer you to his daughter . Frame yourself To orderly soliciting , and be friended With aptness of the season ; make denials Increase your services ; so seem as if You were inspired to do those duties which You tender to her ; that you in all obey her , Save when command to your dismission tends , And therein you are senseless .
CLOTEN : Senseless ! not so . Enter a Messenger
Messenger : So like you , sir , ambassadors from Rome ; The one is Caius Lucius .
CYMBELINE : A worthy fellow , Albeit he comes on angry purpose now ; But that 's no fault of his : we must receive him According to the honour of his sender ; And towards himself , his goodness forespent on us , We must extend our notice . Our dear son , When you have given good morning to your mistress , Attend the queen and us ; we shall have need To employ you towards this Roman . Come , our queen .
