DUKE : That thou shalt see the difference of our spirits , I pardon thee thy life before thou ask it : For half thy wealth , it is Antonio 's ; The other half comes to the general state , Which humbleness may drive unto a fine .
PORTIA : Ay , for the state , not for Antonio .
SHYLOCK : Nay , take my life and all ; pardon not that : You take my house when you do take the prop That doth sustain my house ; you take my life When you do take the means whereby I live .
PORTIA : What mercy can you render him , Antonio ?
GRATIANO : A halter gratis ; nothing else , for God 's sake .
ANTONIO : So please my lord the duke and all the court To quit the fine for one half of his goods , I am content ; so he will let me have The other half in use , to render it , Upon his death , unto the gentleman That lately stole his daughter : Two things provided more , that , for this favour , He presently become a Christian ; The other , that he do record a gift , Here in the court , of all he dies possess 'd , Unto his son Lorenzo and his daughter .
DUKE : He shall do this , or else I do recant The pardon that I late pronounced here .
PORTIA : Art thou contented , Jew ? what dost thou say ?
SHYLOCK : I am content .
PORTIA : Clerk , draw a deed of gift .
SHYLOCK : I pray you , give me leave to go from hence ; I am not well : send the deed after me , And I will sign it .
DUKE : Get thee gone , but do it .
GRATIANO : In christening shalt thou have two god-fathers : Had I been judge , thou shouldst have had ten more , To bring thee to the gallows , not the font . Exit SHYLOCK
DUKE : Sir , I entreat you home with me to dinner .
PORTIA : I humbly do desire your grace of pardon : I must away this night toward Padua , And it is meet I presently set forth .
DUKE : I am sorry that your leisure serves you not . Antonio , gratify this gentleman , For , in my mind , you are much bound to him .
BASSANIO : Most worthy gentleman , I and my friend Have by your wisdom been this day acquitted Of grievous penalties ; in lieu whereof , Three thousand ducats , due unto the Jew , We freely cope your courteous pains withal .
ANTONIO : And stand indebted , over and above , In love and service to you evermore .
PORTIA : He is well paid that is well satisfied ; And I , delivering you , am satisfied And therein do account myself well paid : My mind was never yet more mercenary . I pray you , know me when we meet again : I wish you well , and so I take my leave .
BASSANIO : Dear sir , of force I must attempt you further : Take some remembrance of us , as a tribute , Not as a fee : grant me two things , I pray you , Not to deny me , and to pardon me .
PORTIA : You press me far , and therefore I will yield . To ANTONIO Give me your gloves , I 'll wear them for your sake ; To BASSANIO And , for your love , I 'll take this ring from you : Do not draw back your hand ; I 'll take no more ; And you in love shall not deny me this .
BASSANIO : This ring , good sir , alas , it is a trifle ! I will not shame myself to give you this .
PORTIA : I will have nothing else but only this ; And now methinks I have a mind to it .
BASSANIO : There 's more depends on this than on the value . The dearest ring in Venice will I give you , And find it out by proclamation : Only for this , I pray you , pardon me .
