PORTIA : How all the other passions fleet to air , As doubtful thoughts , and rash-embraced despair , And shuddering fear , and green-eyed jealousy ! O love , Be moderate ; allay thy ecstasy , In measure rein thy joy ; scant this excess . I feel too much thy blessing : make it less , For fear I surfeit .
BASSANIO : What find I here ? Opening the leaden casket Fair Portia 's counterfeit ! What demi-god Hath come so near creation ? Move these eyes ? Or whether , riding on the balls of mine , Seem they in motion ? Here are sever 'd lips , Parted with sugar breath : so sweet a bar Should sunder such sweet friends . Here in her hairs The painter plays the spider and hath woven A golden mesh to entrap the hearts of men , Faster than gnats in cobwebs ; but her eyes , -- How could he see to do them ? having made one , Methinks it should have power to steal both his And leave itself unfurnish 'd . Yet look , how far The substance of my praise doth wrong this shadow In underprizing it , so far this shadow Doth limp behind the substance . Here 's the scroll , The continent and summary of my fortune . Reads You that choose not by the view , Chance as fair and choose as true ! Since this fortune falls to you , Be content and seek no new , If you be well pleased with this And hold your fortune for your bliss , Turn you where your lady is And claim her with a loving kiss . A gentle scroll . Fair lady , by your leave ; I come by note , to give and to receive . Like one of two contending in a prize , That thinks he hath done well in people 's eyes , Hearing applause and universal shout , Giddy in spirit , still gazing in a doubt Whether these pearls of praise be his or no ; So , thrice fair lady , stand I , even so ; As doubtful whether what I see be true , Until confirm 'd , sign 'd , ratified by you .
PORTIA : You see me , Lord Bassanio , where I stand , Such as I am : though for myself alone I would not be ambitious in my wish , To wish myself much better ; yet , for you I would be trebled twenty times myself ; A thousand times more fair , ten thousand times more rich ; That only to stand high in your account , I might in virtue , beauties , livings , friends , Exceed account ; but the full sum of me Is sum of something , which , to term in gross , Is an unlesson 'd girl , unschool 'd , unpractised ; Happy in this , she is not yet so old But she may learn ; happier than this , She is not bred so dull but she can learn ; Happiest of all is that her gentle spirit Commits itself to yours to be directed , As from her lord , her governor , her king . Myself and what is mine to you and yours Is now converted : but now I was the lord Of this fair mansion , master of my servants , Queen o 'er myself : and even now , but now , This house , these servants and this same myself Are yours , my lord : I give them with this ring ; Which when you part from , lose , or give away , Let it presage the ruin of your love And be my vantage to exclaim on you .
BASSANIO : Madam , you have bereft me of all words , Only my blood speaks to you in my veins ; And there is such confusion in my powers , As after some oration fairly spoke By a beloved prince , there doth appear Among the buzzing pleased multitude ; Where every something , being blent together , Turns to a wild of nothing , save of joy , Express 'd and not express 'd . But when this ring Parts from this finger , then parts life from hence : O , then be bold to say Bassanio 's dead !
