PORTIA : Even so void is your false heart of truth . By heaven , I will ne 'er come in your bed Until I see the ring .
NERISSA : Nor I in yours Till I again see mine .
BASSANIO : Sweet Portia , If you did know to whom I gave the ring , If you did know for whom I gave the ring And would conceive for what I gave the ring And how unwillingly I left the ring , When nought would be accepted but the ring , You would abate the strength of your displeasure .
PORTIA : If you had known the virtue of the ring , Or half her worthiness that gave the ring , Or your own honour to contain the ring , You would not then have parted with the ring . What man is there so much unreasonable , If you had pleased to have defended it With any terms of zeal , wanted the modesty To urge the thing held as a ceremony ? Nerissa teaches me what to believe : I 'll die for 't but some woman had the ring .
BASSANIO : No , by my honour , madam , by my soul , No woman had it , but a civil doctor , Which did refuse three thousand ducats of me And begg 'd the ring ; the which I did deny him And suffer 'd him to go displeased away ; Even he that did uphold the very life Of my dear friend . What should I say , sweet lady ? I was enforced to send it after him ; I was beset with shame and courtesy ; My honour would not let ingratitude So much besmear it . Pardon me , good lady ; For , by these blessed candles of the night , Had you been there , I think you would have begg 'd The ring of me to give the worthy doctor .
PORTIA : Let not that doctor e 'er come near my house : Since he hath got the jewel that I loved , And that which you did swear to keep for me , I will become as liberal as you ; I 'll not deny him any thing I have , No , not my body nor my husband 's bed : Know him I shall , I am well sure of it : Lie not a night from home ; watch me like Argus : If you do not , if I be left alone , Now , by mine honour , which is yet mine own , I 'll have that doctor for my bedfellow .
NERISSA : And I his clerk ; therefore be well advised How you do leave me to mine own protection .
GRATIANO : Well , do you so ; let not me take him , then ; For if I do , I 'll mar the young clerk 's pen .
ANTONIO : I am the unhappy subject of these quarrels .
PORTIA : Sir , grieve not you ; you are welcome notwithstanding .
BASSANIO : Portia , forgive me this enforced wrong ; And , in the hearing of these many friends , I swear to thee , even by thine own fair eyes , Wherein I see myself--
PORTIA : Mark you but that ! In both my eyes he doubly sees himself ; In each eye , one : swear by your double self , And there 's an oath of credit .
BASSANIO : Nay , but hear me : Pardon this fault , and by my soul I swear I never more will break an oath with thee .
ANTONIO : I once did lend my body for his wealth ; Which , but for him that had your husband 's ring , Had quite miscarried : I dare be bound again , My soul upon the forfeit , that your lord Will never more break faith advisedly .
PORTIA : Then you shall be his surety . Give him this And bid him keep it better than the other .
ANTONIO : Here , Lord Bassanio ; swear to keep this ring .
BASSANIO : By heaven , it is the same I gave the doctor !
PORTIA : I had it of him : pardon me , Bassanio ; For , by this ring , the doctor lay with me .
