BASSANIO : This is no answer , thou unfeeling man , To excuse the current of thy cruelty .
SHYLOCK : I am not bound to please thee with my answers .
BASSANIO : Do all men kill the things they do not love ?
SHYLOCK : Hates any man the thing he would not kill ?
BASSANIO : Every offence is not a hate at first .
SHYLOCK : What , wouldst thou have a serpent sting thee twice ?
ANTONIO : I pray you , think you question with the Jew : You may as well go stand upon the beach And bid the main flood bate his usual height ; You may as well use question with the wolf Why he hath made the ewe bleat for the lamb ; You may as well forbid the mountain pines To wag their high tops and to make no noise , When they are fretten with the gusts of heaven ; You may as well do anything most hard , As seek to soften that--than which what 's harder ? -- His Jewish heart : therefore , I do beseech you , Make no more offers , use no farther means , But with all brief and plain conveniency Let me have judgment and the Jew his will .
BASSANIO : For thy three thousand ducats here is six .
SHYLOCK : What judgment shall I dread , doing Were in six parts and every part a ducat , I would not draw them ; I would have my bond .
DUKE : How shalt thou hope for mercy , rendering none ?
SHYLOCK : What judgment shall I dread , doing no wrong ? You have among you many a purchased slave , Which , like your asses and your dogs and mules , You use in abject and in slavish parts , Because you bought them : shall I say to you , Let them be free , marry them to your heirs ? Why sweat they under burthens ? let their beds Be made as soft as yours and let their palates Be season 'd with such viands ? You will answer ' The slaves are ours : ' so do I answer you : The pound of flesh , which I demand of him , Is dearly bought ; ' tis mine and I will have it . If you deny me , fie upon your law ! There is no force in the decrees of Venice . I stand for judgment : answer ; shall I have it ?
DUKE : Upon my power I may dismiss this court , Unless Bellario , a learned doctor , Whom I have sent for to determine this , Come here to-day .
SALERIO : My lord , here stays without A messenger with letters from the doctor , New come from Padua .
DUKE : Bring us the letter ; call the messenger .
BASSANIO : Good cheer , Antonio ! What , man , courage yet ! The Jew shall have my flesh , blood , bones and all , Ere thou shalt lose for me one drop of blood .
ANTONIO : I am a tainted wether of the flock , Meetest for death : the weakest kind of fruit Drops earliest to the ground ; and so let me You cannot better be employ 'd , Bassanio , Than to live still and write mine epitaph . Enter NERISSA , dressed like a lawyer 's clerk
DUKE : Came you from Padua , from Bellario ?
NERISSA : From both , my lord . Bellario greets your grace . Presenting a letter
BASSANIO : Why dost thou whet thy knife so earnestly ?
SHYLOCK : To cut the forfeiture from that bankrupt there .
GRATIANO : Not on thy sole , but on thy soul , harsh Jew , Thou makest thy knife keen ; but no metal can , No , not the hangman 's axe , bear half the keenness Of thy sharp envy . Can no prayers pierce thee ?
SHYLOCK : No , none that thou hast wit enough to make .
