NERISSA : Why , shall we turn to men ?
PORTIA : Fie , what a question 's that , If thou wert near a lewd interpreter ! But come , I 'll tell thee all my whole device When I am in my coach , which stays for us At the park gate ; and therefore haste away , For we must measure twenty miles to-day . Enter LAUNCELOT and JESSICA
LAUNCELOT : Yes , truly ; for , look you , the sins of the father are to be laid upon the children : therefore , I promise ye , I fear you . I was always plain with you , and so now I speak my agitation of the matter : therefore be of good cheer , for truly I think you are damned . There is but one hope in it that can do you any good ; and that is but a kind of bastard hope neither .
JESSICA : And what hope is that , I pray thee ?
LAUNCELOT : Marry , you may partly hope that your father got you not , that you are not the Jew 's daughter .
JESSICA : That were a kind of bastard hope , indeed : so the sins of my mother should be visited upon me .
LAUNCELOT : Truly then I fear you are damned both by father and mother : thus when I shun Scylla , your father , I fall into Charybdis , your mother : well , you are gone both ways .
JESSICA : I shall be saved by my husband ; he hath made me a Christian .
LAUNCELOT : Truly , the more to blame he : we were Christians enow before ; e 'en as many as could well live , one by another . This making Christians will raise the price of hogs : if we grow all to be pork-eaters , we shall not shortly have a rasher on the coals for money . Enter LORENZO
JESSICA : I 'll tell my husband , Launcelot , what you say : here he comes .
LORENZO : I shall grow jealous of you shortly , Launcelot , if you thus get my wife into corners .
JESSICA : Nay , you need not fear us , Lorenzo : Launcelot and I are out . He tells me flatly , there is no mercy for me in heaven , because I am a Jew 's daughter : and he says , you are no good member of the commonwealth , for in converting Jews to Christians , you raise the price of pork .
LORENZO : I shall answer that better to the commonwealth than you can the getting up of the negro 's belly : the Moor is with child by you , Launcelot .
LAUNCELOT : It is much that the Moor should be more than reason : but if she be less than an honest woman , she is indeed more than I took her for .
LORENZO : How every fool can play upon the word ! I think the best grace of wit will shortly turn into silence , and discourse grow commendable in none only but parrots . Go in , sirrah ; bid them prepare for dinner .
LAUNCELOT : That is done , sir ; they have all stomachs .
LORENZO : Goodly Lord , what a wit-snapper are you ! then bid them prepare dinner .
LAUNCELOT : That is done too , sir ; only ' cover ' is the word .
LORENZO : Will you cover then , sir ?
LAUNCELOT : Not so , sir , neither ; I know my duty .
LORENZO : Yet more quarrelling with occasion ! Wilt thou show the whole wealth of thy wit in an instant ? I pray tree , understand a plain man in his plain meaning : go to thy fellows ; bid them cover the table , serve in the meat , and we will come in to dinner .
LAUNCELOT : For the table , sir , it shall be served in ; for the meat , sir , it shall be covered ; for your coming in to dinner , sir , why , let it be as humours and conceits shall govern . Exit
