NERISSA : How say you by the French lord , Monsieur Le Bon ?
PORTIA : God made him , and therefore let him pass for a man . In truth , I know it is a sin to be a mocker : but , he ! why , he hath a horse better than the Neapolitan 's , a better bad habit of frowning than the Count Palatine ; he is every man in no man ; if a throstle sing , he falls straight a capering : he will fence with his own shadow : if I should marry him , I should marry twenty husbands . If he would despise me I would forgive him , for if he love me to madness , I shall never requite him .
NERISSA : What say you , then , to Falconbridge , the young baron of England ?
PORTIA : You know I say nothing to him , for he understands not me , nor I him : he hath neither Latin , French , nor Italian , and you will come into the court and swear that I have a poor pennyworth in the English . He is a proper man 's picture , but , alas , who can converse with a dumb-show ? How oddly he is suited ! I think he bought his doublet in Italy , his round hose in France , his bonnet in Germany and his behavior every where .
NERISSA : What think you of the Scottish lord , his neighbour ?
PORTIA : That he hath a neighbourly charity in him , for he borrowed a box of the ear of the Englishman and swore he would pay him again when he was able : I think the Frenchman became his surety and sealed under for another .
NERISSA : How like you the young German , the Duke of Saxony 's nephew ?
PORTIA : Very vilely in the morning , when he is sober , and most vilely in the afternoon , when he is drunk : when he is best , he is a little worse than a man , and when he is worst , he is little better than a beast : and the worst fall that ever fell , I hope I shall make shift to go without him .
NERISSA : If he should offer to choose , and choose the right casket , you should refuse to perform your father 's will , if you should refuse to accept him .
PORTIA : Therefore , for fear of the worst , I pray thee , set a deep glass of rhenish wine on the contrary casket , for if the devil be within and that temptation without , I know he will choose it . I will do any thing , Nerissa , ere I 'll be married to a sponge .
NERISSA : You need not fear , lady , the having any of these lords : they have acquainted me with their determinations ; which is , indeed , to return to their home and to trouble you with no more suit , unless you may be won by some other sort than your father 's imposition depending on the caskets .
PORTIA : If I live to be as old as Sibylla , I will die as chaste as Diana , unless I be obtained by the manner of my father 's will . I am glad this parcel of wooers are so reasonable , for there is not one among them but I dote on his very absence , and I pray God grant them a fair departure .
NERISSA : Do you not remember , lady , in your father 's time , a Venetian , a scholar and a soldier , that came hither in company of the Marquis of Montferrat ?
PORTIA : Yes , yes , it was Bassanio ; as I think , he was so called .
NERISSA : True , madam : he , of all the men that ever my foolish eyes looked upon , was the best deserving a fair lady .
PORTIA : I remember him well , and I remember him worthy of thy praise . Enter a Serving-man How now ! what news ?
