BASSANIO : Good sir , this ring was given me by my wife ; And when she put it on , she made me vow That I should neither sell nor give nor lose it .
PORTIA : That ' scuse serves many men to save their gifts . An if your wife be not a mad-woman , And know how well I have deserved the ring , She would not hold out enemy for ever , For giving it to me . Well , peace be with you !
ANTONIO : My Lord Bassanio , let him have the ring : Let his deservings and my love withal Be valued against your wife 's commandment .
BASSANIO : Go , Gratiano , run and overtake him ; Give him the ring , and bring him , if thou canst , Unto Antonio 's house : away ! make haste . Exit Gratiano Come , you and I will thither presently ; And in the morning early will we both Fly toward Belmont : come , Antonio . Enter PORTIA and NERISSA
PORTIA : Inquire the Jew 's house out , give him this deed And let him sign it : we 'll away to-night And be a day before our husbands home : This deed will be well welcome to Lorenzo . Enter GRATIANO
GRATIANO : Fair sir , you are well o 'erta 'en My Lord Bassanio upon more advice Hath sent you here this ring , and doth entreat Your company at dinner .
PORTIA : That cannot be : His ring I do accept most thankfully : And so , I pray you , tell him : furthermore , I pray you , show my youth old Shylock 's house .
GRATIANO : That will I do .
NERISSA : Sir , I would speak with you . Aside to PORTIA I 'll see if I can get my husband 's ring , Which I did make him swear to keep for ever .
PORTIA : Thou mayst , I warrant . We shall have old swearing That they did give the rings away to men ; But we 'll outface them , and outswear them too . Aloud Away ! make haste : thou knowist where I will tarry .
NERISSA : Come , good sir , will you show me to this house ? Enter LORENZO and JESSICA
LORENZO : The moon shines bright : in such a night as this , When the sweet wind did gently kiss the trees And they did make no noise , in such a night Troilus methinks mounted the Troyan walls And sigh 'd his soul toward the Grecian tents , Where Cressid lay that night .
JESSICA : In such a night Did Thisbe fearfully o 'ertrip the dew And saw the lion 's shadow ere himself And ran dismay 'd away .
LORENZO : In such a night Stood Dido with a willow in her hand Upon the wild sea banks and waft her love To come again to Carthage .
JESSICA : In such a night Medea gather 'd the enchanted herbs That did renew old AEson .
LORENZO : In such a night Did Jessica steal from the wealthy Jew And with an unthrift love did run from Venice As far as Belmont .
JESSICA : In such a night Did young Lorenzo swear he loved her well , Stealing her soul with many vows of faith And ne 'er a true one .
LORENZO : In such a night Did pretty Jessica , like a little shrew , Slander her love , and he forgave it her .
JESSICA : I would out-night you , did no body come ; But , hark , I hear the footing of a man . Enter STEPHANO
LORENZO : Who comes so fast in silence of the night ?
STEPHANO : A friend .
LORENZO : A friend ! what friend ? your name , I pray you , friend ?
STEPHANO : Stephano is my name ; and I bring word My mistress will before the break of day Be here at Belmont ; she doth stray about By holy crosses , where she kneels and prays For happy wedlock hours .
LORENZO : Who comes with her ?
STEPHANO : None but a holy hermit and her maid . I pray you , is my master yet return 'd ?
