SHYLOCK : What , are there masques ? Hear you me , Jessica : Lock up my doors ; and when you hear the drum And the vile squealing of the wry-neck 'd fife , Clamber not you up to the casements then , Nor thrust your head into the public street To gaze on Christian fools with varnish 'd faces , But stop my house 's ears , I mean my casements : Let not the sound of shallow foppery enter My sober house . By Jacob 's staff , I swear , I have no mind of feasting forth to-night : But I will go . Go you before me , sirrah ; Say I will come .
LAUNCELOT : I will go before , sir . Mistress , look out at window , for all this , There will come a Christian boy , will be worth a Jewess ' eye . Exit
SHYLOCK : What says that fool of Hagar 's offspring , ha ?
JESSICA : His words were ' Farewell mistress ; ' nothing else .
SHYLOCK : The patch is kind enough , but a huge feeder ; Snail-slow in profit , and he sleeps by day More than the wild-cat : drones hive not with me ; Therefore I part with him , and part with him To one that would have him help to waste His borrow 'd purse . Well , Jessica , go in ; Perhaps I will return immediately : Do as I bid you ; shut doors after you : Fast bind , fast find ; A proverb never stale in thrifty mind . Exit
JESSICA : Farewell ; and if my fortune be not crost , I have a father , you a daughter , lost . Exit Enter GRATIANO and SALARINO , masqued
GRATIANO : This is the pent-house under which Lorenzo Desired us to make stand .
SALARINO : His hour is almost past .
GRATIANO : And it is marvel he out-dwells his hour , For lovers ever run before the clock .
SALARINO : O , ten times faster Venus ' pigeons fly To seal love 's bonds new-made , than they are wont To keep obliged faith unforfeited !
GRATIANO : That ever holds : who riseth from a feast With that keen appetite that he sits down ? Where is the horse that doth untread again His tedious measures with the unbated fire That he did pace them first ? All things that are , Are with more spirit chased than enjoy 'd . How like a younker or a prodigal The scarfed bark puts from her native bay , Hugg 'd and embraced by the strumpet wind ! How like the prodigal doth she return , With over-weather 'd ribs and ragged sails , Lean , rent and beggar 'd by the strumpet wind !
SALARINO : Here comes Lorenzo : more of this hereafter . Enter LORENZO
LORENZO : Sweet friends , your patience for my long abode ; Not I , but my affairs , have made you wait : When you shall please to play the thieves for wives , I 'll watch as long for you then . Approach ; Here dwells my father Jew . Ho ! who 's within ? Enter JESSICA , above , in boy 's clothes
JESSICA : Who are you ? Tell me , for more certainty , Albeit I 'll swear that I do know your tongue .
LORENZO : Lorenzo , and thy love .
JESSICA : Lorenzo , certain , and my love indeed , For who love I so much ? And now who knows But you , Lorenzo , whether I am yours ?
LORENZO : Heaven and thy thoughts are witness that thou art .
JESSICA : Here , catch this casket ; it is worth the pains . I am glad ' tis night , you do not look on me , For I am much ashamed of my exchange : But love is blind and lovers cannot see The pretty follies that themselves commit ; For if they could , Cupid himself would blush To see me thus transformed to a boy .
LORENZO : Descend , for you must be my torchbearer .
JESSICA : What , must I hold a candle to my shames ? They in themselves , good-sooth , are too too light . Why , ' tis an office of discovery , love ; And I should be obscured .
