PORTIA : Go in , Nerissa ; Give order to my servants that they take No note at all of our being absent hence ; Nor you , Lorenzo ; Jessica , nor you . A tucket sounds
LORENZO : Your husband is at hand ; I hear his trumpet : We are no tell-tales , madam ; fear you not .
PORTIA : This night methinks is but the daylight sick ; It looks a little paler : ' tis a day , Such as the day is when the sun is hid . Enter BASSANIO , ANTONIO , GRATIANO , and their followers
BASSANIO : We should hold day with the Antipodes , If you would walk in absence of the sun .
PORTIA : Let me give light , but let me not be light ; For a light wife doth make a heavy husband , And never be Bassanio so for me : But God sort all ! You are welcome home , my lord .
BASSANIO : I thank you , madam . Give welcome to my friend . This is the man , this is Antonio , To whom I am so infinitely bound .
PORTIA : You should in all sense be much bound to him . For , as I hear , he was much bound for you .
ANTONIO : No more than I am well acquitted of .
PORTIA : Sir , you are very welcome to our house : It must appear in other ways than words , Therefore I scant this breathing courtesy .
GRATIANO : By yonder moon I swear you do me wrong ; In faith , I gave it to the judge 's clerk : Would he were gelt that had it , for my part , Since you do take it , love , so much at heart .
PORTIA : A quarrel , ho , already ! what 's the matter ?
GRATIANO : About a hoop of gold , a paltry ring That she did give me , whose posy was For all the world like cutler 's poetry Upon a knife , ' Love me , and leave me not . ' 
NERISSA : What talk you of the posy or the value ? You swore to me , when I did give it you , That you would wear it till your hour of death And that it should lie with you in your grave : Though not for me , yet for your vehement oaths , You should have been respective and have kept it . Gave it a judge 's clerk ! no , God 's my judge , The clerk will ne 'er wear hair on 's face that had it .
GRATIANO : He will , an if he live to be a man .
NERISSA : Ay , if a woman live to be a man .
GRATIANO : Now , by this hand , I gave it to a youth , A kind of boy , a little scrubbed boy , No higher than thyself ; the judge 's clerk , A prating boy , that begg 'd it as a fee : I could not for my heart deny it him .
PORTIA : You were to blame , I must be plain with you , To part so slightly with your wife 's first gift : A thing stuck on with oaths upon your finger And so riveted with faith unto your flesh . I gave my love a ring and made him swear Never to part with it ; and here he stands ; I dare be sworn for him he would not leave it Nor pluck it from his finger , for the wealth That the world masters . Now , in faith , Gratiano , You give your wife too unkind a cause of grief : An ' twere to me , I should be mad at it .
BASSANIO : Why , I were best to cut my left hand off And swear I lost the ring defending it .
GRATIANO : My Lord Bassanio gave his ring away Unto the judge that begg 'd it and indeed Deserved it too ; and then the boy , his clerk , That took some pains in writing , he begg 'd mine ; And neither man nor master would take aught But the two rings .
PORTIA : What ring gave you my lord ? Not that , I hope , which you received of me .
