SALERIO : Not one , my lord . Besides , it should appear , that if he had The present money to discharge the Jew , He would not take it . Never did I know A creature , that did bear the shape of man , So keen and greedy to confound a man : He plies the duke at morning and at night , And doth impeach the freedom of the state , If they deny him justice : twenty merchants , The duke himself , and the magnificoes Of greatest port , have all persuaded with him ; But none can drive him from the envious plea Of forfeiture , of justice and his bond .
JESSICA : When I was with him I have heard him swear To Tubal and to Chus , his countrymen , That he would rather have Antonio 's flesh Than twenty times the value of the sum That he did owe him : and I know , my lord , If law , authority and power deny not , It will go hard with poor Antonio .
PORTIA : Is it your dear friend that is thus in trouble ?
BASSANIO : The dearest friend to me , the kindest man , The best-condition 'd and unwearied spirit In doing courtesies , and one in whom The ancient Roman honour more appears Than any that draws breath in Italy .
PORTIA : What sum owes he the Jew ?
BASSANIO : For me three thousand ducats .
PORTIA : What , no more ? Pay him six thousand , and deface the bond ; Double six thousand , and then treble that , Before a friend of this description Shall lose a hair through Bassanio 's fault . First go with me to church and call me wife , And then away to Venice to your friend ; For never shall you lie by Portia 's side With an unquiet soul . You shall have gold To pay the petty debt twenty times over : When it is paid , bring your true friend along . My maid Nerissa and myself meantime Will live as maids and widows . Come , away ! For you shall hence upon your wedding-day : Bid your friends welcome , show a merry cheer : Since you are dear bought , I will love you dear . But let me hear the letter of your friend .
BASSANIO : Sweet Bassanio , my ships have all miscarried , my creditors grow cruel , my estate is very low , my bond to the Jew is forfeit ; and since in paying it , it is impossible I should live , all debts are cleared between you and I , if I might but see you at my death . Notwithstanding , use your pleasure : if your love do not persuade you to come , let not my letter .
PORTIA : O love , dispatch all business , and be gone !
BASSANIO : Since I have your good leave to go away , I will make haste : but , till I come again , No bed shall e 'er be guilty of my stay , No rest be interposer ' twixt us twain . Enter SHYLOCK , SALARINO , ANTONIO , and Gaoler
SHYLOCK : Gaoler , look to him : tell not me of mercy ; This is the fool that lent out money gratis : Gaoler , look to him .
ANTONIO : Hear me yet , good Shylock .
SHYLOCK : I 'll have my bond ; speak not against my bond : I have sworn an oath that I will have my bond . Thou call 'dst me dog before thou hadst a cause ; But , since I am a dog , beware my fangs : The duke shall grant me justice . I do wonder , Thou naughty gaoler , that thou art so fond To come abroad with him at his request .
ANTONIO : I pray thee , hear me speak .
SHYLOCK : I 'll have my bond ; I will not hear thee speak : I 'll have my bond ; and therefore speak no more . I 'll not be made a soft and dull-eyed fool , To shake the head , relent , and sigh , and yield To Christian intercessors . Follow not ; I 'll have no speaking : I will have my bond . Exit
