GRATIANO : Let me play the fool : With mirth and laughter let old wrinkles come , And let my liver rather heat with wine Than my heart cool with mortifying groans . Why should a man , whose blood is warm within , Sit like his grandsire cut in alabaster ? Sleep when he wakes and creep into the jaundice By being peevish ? I tell thee what , Antonio-- I love thee , and it is my love that speaks-- There are a sort of men whose visages Do cream and mantle like a standing pond , And do a wilful stillness entertain , With purpose to be dress 'd in an opinion Of wisdom , gravity , profound conceit , As who should say ' I am Sir Oracle , And when I ope my lips let no dog bark ! ' O my Antonio , I do know of these That therefore only are reputed wise For saying nothing ; when , I am very sure , If they should speak , would almost damn those ears , Which , hearing them , would call their brothers fools . I 'll tell thee more of this another time : But fish not , with this melancholy bait , For this fool gudgeon , this opinion . Come , good Lorenzo . Fare ye well awhile : I 'll end my exhortation after dinner .
LORENZO : Well , we will leave you then till dinner-time : I must be one of these same dumb wise men , For Gratiano never lets me speak .
GRATIANO : Well , keep me company but two years moe , Thou shalt not know the sound of thine own tongue .
ANTONIO : Farewell : I 'll grow a talker for this gear .
GRATIANO : Thanks , i ' faith , for silence is only commendable In a neat 's tongue dried and a maid not vendible .
ANTONIO : Is that any thing now ?
BASSANIO : Gratiano speaks an infinite deal of nothing , more than any man in all Venice . His reasons are as two grains of wheat hid in two bushels of chaff : you shall seek all day ere you find them , and when you have them , they are not worth the search .
ANTONIO : Well , tell me now what lady is the same To whom you swore a secret pilgrimage , That you to-day promised to tell me of ?
BASSANIO : ' Tis not unknown to you , Antonio , How much I have disabled mine estate , By something showing a more swelling port Than my faint means would grant continuance : Nor do I now make moan to be abridged From such a noble rate ; but my chief care Is to come fairly off from the great debts Wherein my time something too prodigal Hath left me gaged . To you , Antonio , I owe the most , in money and in love , And from your love I have a warranty To unburden all my plots and purposes How to get clear of all the debts I owe .
ANTONIO : I pray you , good Bassanio , let me know it ; And if it stand , as you yourself still do , Within the eye of honour , be assured , My purse , my person , my extremest means , Lie all unlock 'd to your occasions .
BASSANIO : In my school-days , when I had lost one shaft , I shot his fellow of the self-same flight The self-same way with more advised watch , To find the other forth , and by adventuring both I oft found both : I urge this childhood proof , Because what follows is pure innocence . I owe you much , and , like a wilful youth , That which I owe is lost ; but if you please To shoot another arrow that self way Which you did shoot the first , I do not doubt , As I will watch the aim , or to find both Or bring your latter hazard back again And thankfully rest debtor for the first .
