Servant : Gentlemen , my master Antonio is at his house and desires to speak with you both .
SALARINO : We have been up and down to seek him . Enter TUBAL
SALANIO : Here comes another of the tribe : a third cannot be matched , unless the devil himself turn Jew .
SHYLOCK : How now , Tubal ! what news from Genoa ? hast thou found my daughter ?
TUBAL : I often came where I did hear of her , but cannot find her .
SHYLOCK : Why , there , there , there , there ! a diamond gone , cost me two thousand ducats in Frankfort ! The curse never fell upon our nation till now ; I never felt it till now : two thousand ducats in that ; and other precious , precious jewels . I would my daughter were dead at my foot , and the jewels in her ear ! would she were hearsed at my foot , and the ducats in her coffin ! No news of them ? Why , so : and I know not what 's spent in the search : why , thou loss upon loss ! the thief gone with so much , and so much to find the thief ; and no satisfaction , no revenge : nor no in luck stirring but what lights on my shoulders ; no sighs but of my breathing ; no tears but of my shedding .
TUBAL : Yes , other men have ill luck too : Antonio , as I heard in Genoa , --
SHYLOCK : What , what , what ? ill luck , ill luck ?
TUBAL : Hath an argosy cast away , coming from Tripolis .
SHYLOCK : I thank God , I thank God . Is 't true , is 't true ?
TUBAL : I spoke with some of the sailors that escaped the wreck .
SHYLOCK : I thank thee , good Tubal : good news , good news ! ha , ha ! where ? in Genoa ?
TUBAL : Your daughter spent in Genoa , as I heard , in one night fourscore ducats .
SHYLOCK : Thou stickest a dagger in me : I shall never see my gold again : fourscore ducats at a sitting ! fourscore ducats !
TUBAL : There came divers of Antonio 's creditors in my company to Venice , that swear he cannot choose but break .
SHYLOCK : I am very glad of it : I 'll plague him ; I 'll torture him : I am glad of it .
TUBAL : One of them showed me a ring that he had of your daughter for a monkey .
SHYLOCK : Out upon her ! Thou torturest me , Tubal : it was my turquoise ; I had it of Leah when I was a bachelor : I would not have given it for a wilderness of monkeys .
TUBAL : But Antonio is certainly undone .
SHYLOCK : Nay , that 's true , that 's very true . Go , Tubal , fee me an officer ; bespeak him a fortnight before . I will have the heart of him , if he forfeit ; for , were he out of Venice , I can make what merchandise I will . Go , go , Tubal , and meet me at our synagogue ; go , good Tubal ; at our synagogue , Tubal . Enter BASSANIO , PORTIA , GRATIANO , NERISSA , and Attendants
