JESSICA : Past all expressing . It is very meet The Lord Bassanio live an upright life ; For , having such a blessing in his lady , He finds the joys of heaven here on earth ; And if on earth he do not mean it , then In reason he should never come to heaven Why , if two gods should play some heavenly match And on the wager lay two earthly women , And Portia one , there must be something else Pawn 'd with the other , for the poor rude world Hath not her fellow .
LORENZO : Even such a husband Hast thou of me as she is for a wife .
JESSICA : Nay , but ask my opinion too of that .
LORENZO : I will anon : first , let us go to dinner .
JESSICA : Nay , let me praise you while I have a stomach .
LORENZO : No , pray thee , let it serve for table-talk ; ' Then , howso 'er thou speak 'st , ' mong other things I shall digest it .
JESSICA : Well , I 'll set you forth . Enter the DUKE , the Magnificoes , ANTONIO , BASSANIO , GRATIANO , SALERIO , and others
DUKE : What , is Antonio here ?
ANTONIO : Ready , so please your grace .
DUKE : I am sorry for thee : thou art come to answer A stony adversary , an inhuman wretch uncapable of pity , void and empty From any dram of mercy .
ANTONIO : I have heard Your grace hath ta 'en great pains to qualify His rigorous course ; but since he stands obdurate And that no lawful means can carry me Out of his envy 's reach , I do oppose My patience to his fury , and am arm 'd To suffer , with a quietness of spirit , The very tyranny and rage of his .
DUKE : Go one , and call the Jew into the court .
SALERIO : He is ready at the door : he comes , my lord . Enter SHYLOCK
DUKE : Make room , and let him stand before our face . Shylock , the world thinks , and I think so too , That thou but lead 'st this fashion of thy malice To the last hour of act ; and then ' tis thought Thou 'lt show thy mercy and remorse more strange Than is thy strange apparent cruelty ; And where thou now exact 'st the penalty , Which is a pound of this poor merchant 's flesh , Thou wilt not only loose the forfeiture , But , touch 'd with human gentleness and love , Forgive a moiety of the principal ; Glancing an eye of pity on his losses , That have of late so huddled on his back , Enow to press a royal merchant down And pluck commiseration of his state From brassy bosoms and rough hearts of flint , From stubborn Turks and Tartars , never train 'd To offices of tender courtesy . We all expect a gentle answer , Jew .
