LAUNCELOT : Sola , sola ! wo ha , ho ! sola , sola !
LORENZO : Who calls ?
LAUNCELOT : Sola ! did you see Master Lorenzo ? Master Lorenzo , sola , sola !
LORENZO : Leave hollaing , man : here .
LAUNCELOT : Sola ! where ? where ?
LORENZO : Here .
LAUNCELOT : Tell him there 's a post come from my master , with his horn full of good news : my master will be here ere morning . Exit
LORENZO : Sweet soul , let 's in , and there expect their coming . And yet no matter : why should we go in ? My friend Stephano , signify , I pray you , Within the house , your mistress is at hand ; And bring your music forth into the air . Exit Stephano How sweet the moonlight sleeps upon this bank ! Here will we sit and let the sounds of music Creep in our ears : soft stillness and the night Become the touches of sweet harmony . Sit , Jessica . Look how the floor of heaven Is thick inlaid with patines of bright gold : There 's not the smallest orb which thou behold 'st But in his motion like an angel sings , Still quiring to the young-eyed cherubins ; Such harmony is in immortal souls ; But whilst this muddy vesture of decay Doth grossly close it in , we cannot hear it . Enter Musicians Come , ho ! and wake Diana with a hymn ! With sweetest touches pierce your mistress ' ear , And draw her home with music . Music
JESSICA : I am never merry when I hear sweet music .
LORENZO : The reason is , your spirits are attentive : For do but note a wild and wanton herd , Or race of youthful and unhandled colts , Fetching mad bounds , bellowing and neighing loud , Which is the hot condition of their blood ; If they but hear perchance a trumpet sound , Or any air of music touch their ears , You shall perceive them make a mutual stand , Their savage eyes turn 'd to a modest gaze By the sweet power of music : therefore the poet Did feign that Orpheus drew trees , stones and floods ; Since nought so stockish , hard and full of rage , But music for the time doth change his nature . The man that hath no music in himself , Nor is not moved with concord of sweet sounds , Is fit for treasons , stratagems and spoils ; The motions of his spirit are dull as night And his affections dark as Erebus : Let no such man be trusted . Mark the music . Enter PORTIA and NERISSA
PORTIA : That light we see is burning in my hall . How far that little candle throws his beams ! So shines a good deed in a naughty world .
NERISSA : When the moon shone , we did not see the candle .
PORTIA : So doth the greater glory dim the less : A substitute shines brightly as a king Unto the king be by , and then his state Empties itself , as doth an inland brook Into the main of waters . Music ! hark !
NERISSA : It is your music , madam , of the house .
PORTIA : Nothing is good , I see , without respect : Methinks it sounds much sweeter than by day .
NERISSA : Silence bestows that virtue on it , madam .
PORTIA : The crow doth sing as sweetly as the lark , When neither is attended , and I think The nightingale , if she should sing by day , When every goose is cackling , would be thought No better a musician than the wren . How many things by season season 'd are To their right praise and true perfection ! Peace , ho ! the moon sleeps with Endymion And would not be awaked . Music ceases
LORENZO : That is the voice , Or I am much deceived , of Portia .
PORTIA : He knows me as the blind man knows the cuckoo , By the bad voice .
LORENZO : Dear lady , welcome home .
PORTIA : We have been praying for our husbands ' healths , Which speed , we hope , the better for our words . Are they return 'd ?
