ANTONIO : In sooth , I know not why I am so sad : It wearies me ; you say it wearies you ; But how I caught it , found it , or came by it , What stuff ' tis made of , whereof it is born , I am to learn ; And such a want-wit sadness makes of me , That I have much ado to know myself .
SALARINO : Your mind is tossing on the ocean ; There , where your argosies with portly sail , Like signiors and rich burghers on the flood , Or , as it were , the pageants of the sea , Do overpeer the petty traffickers , That curtsy to them , do them reverence , As they fly by them with their woven wings .
SALANIO : Believe me , sir , had I such venture forth , The better part of my affections would Be with my hopes abroad . I should be still Plucking the grass , to know where sits the wind , Peering in maps for ports and piers and roads ; And every object that might make me fear Misfortune to my ventures , out of doubt Would make me sad .
SALARINO : My wind cooling my broth Would blow me to an ague , when I thought What harm a wind too great at sea might do . I should not see the sandy hour-glass run , But I should think of shallows and of flats , And see my wealthy Andrew dock 'd in sand , Vailing her high-top lower than her ribs To kiss her burial . Should I go to church And see the holy edifice of stone , And not bethink me straight of dangerous rocks , Which touching but my gentle vessel 's side , Would scatter all her spices on the stream , Enrobe the roaring waters with my silks , And , in a word , but even now worth this , And now worth nothing ? Shall I have the thought To think on this , and shall I lack the thought That such a thing bechanced would make me sad ? But tell not me ; I know , Antonio Is sad to think upon his merchandise .
ANTONIO : Believe me , no : I thank my fortune for it , My ventures are not in one bottom trusted , Nor to one place ; nor is my whole estate Upon the fortune of this present year : Therefore my merchandise makes me not sad .
SALARINO : Why , then you are in love .
ANTONIO : Fie , fie !
SALARINO : Not in love neither ? Then let us say you are sad , Because you are not merry : and ' twere as easy For you to laugh and leap and say you are merry , Because you are not sad . Now , by two-headed Janus , Nature hath framed strange fellows in her time : Some that will evermore peep through their eyes And laugh like parrots at a bag-piper , And other of such vinegar aspect That they 'll not show their teeth in way of smile , Though Nestor swear the jest be laughable . Enter BASSANIO , LORENZO , and GRATIANO
SALANIO : Here comes Bassanio , your most noble kinsman , Gratiano and Lorenzo . Fare ye well : We leave you now with better company .
SALARINO : I would have stay 'd till I had made you merry , If worthier friends had not prevented me .
ANTONIO : Your worth is very dear in my regard . I take it , your own business calls on you And you embrace the occasion to depart .
SALARINO : Good morrow , my good lords .
BASSANIO : Good signiors both , when shall we laugh ? say , when ? You grow exceeding strange : must it be so ?
SALARINO : We 'll make our leisures to attend on yours .
LORENZO : My Lord Bassanio , since you have found Antonio , We two will leave you : but at dinner-time , I pray you , have in mind where we must meet .
BASSANIO : I will not fail you .
GRATIANO : You look not well , Signior Antonio ; You have too much respect upon the world : They lose it that do buy it with much care : Believe me , you are marvellously changed .
