GRATIANO : My lord Bassanio and my gentle lady , I wish you all the joy that you can wish ; For I am sure you can wish none from me : And when your honours mean to solemnize The bargain of your faith , I do beseech you , Even at that time I may be married too .
BASSANIO : With all my heart , so thou canst get a wife .
GRATIANO : I thank your lordship , you have got me one . My eyes , my lord , can look as swift as yours : You saw the mistress , I beheld the maid ; You loved , I loved for intermission . No more pertains to me , my lord , than you . Your fortune stood upon the casket there , And so did mine too , as the matter falls ; For wooing here until I sweat again , And sweating until my very roof was dry With oaths of love , at last , if promise last , I got a promise of this fair one here To have her love , provided that your fortune Achieved her mistress .
PORTIA : Is this true , Nerissa ?
NERISSA : Madam , it is , so you stand pleased withal .
BASSANIO : And do you , Gratiano , mean good faith ?
GRATIANO : Yes , faith , my lord .
BASSANIO : Our feast shall be much honour 'd in your marriage .
GRATIANO : We 'll play with them the first boy for a thousand ducats .
NERISSA : What , and stake down ?
GRATIANO : No ; we shall ne 'er win at that sport , and stake down . But who comes here ? Lorenzo and his infidel ? What , and my old Venetian friend Salerio ? Enter LORENZO , JESSICA , and SALERIO , a Messenger from Venice
BASSANIO : Lorenzo and Salerio , welcome hither ; If that the youth of my new interest here Have power to bid you welcome . By your leave , I bid my very friends and countrymen , Sweet Portia , welcome .
PORTIA : So do I , my lord : They are entirely welcome .
LORENZO : I thank your honour . For my part , my lord , My purpose was not to have seen you here ; But meeting with Salerio by the way , He did entreat me , past all saying nay , To come with him along .
SALERIO : I did , my lord ; And I have reason for it . Signior Antonio Commends him to you . Gives Bassanio a letter
BASSANIO : Ere I ope his letter , I pray you , tell me how my good friend doth .
SALERIO : Not sick , my lord , unless it be in mind ; Nor well , unless in mind : his letter there Will show you his estate .
GRATIANO : Nerissa , cheer yon stranger ; bid her welcome . Your hand , Salerio : what 's the news from Venice ? How doth that royal merchant , good Antonio ? I know he will be glad of our success ; We are the Jasons , we have won the fleece .
SALERIO : I would you had won the fleece that he hath lost .
PORTIA : There are some shrewd contents in yon same paper , That steals the colour from Bassanio 's cheek : Some dear friend dead ; else nothing in the world Could turn so much the constitution Of any constant man . What , worse and worse ! With leave , Bassanio : I am half yourself , And I must freely have the half of anything That this same paper brings you .
