BASSANIO : Let me choose For as I am , I live upon the rack .
PORTIA : Upon the rack , Bassanio ! then confess What treason there is mingled with your love .
BASSANIO : None but that ugly treason of mistrust , Which makes me fear the enjoying of my love : There may as well be amity and life ' Tween snow and fire , as treason and my love .
PORTIA : Ay , but I fear you speak upon the rack , Where men enforced do speak anything .
BASSANIO : Promise me life , and I 'll confess the truth .
PORTIA : Well then , confess and live .
BASSANIO : ' Confess ' and ' love ' Had been the very sum of my confession : O happy torment , when my torturer Doth teach me answers for deliverance ! But let me to my fortune and the caskets .
PORTIA : Away , then ! I am lock 'd in one of them : If you do love me , you will find me out . Nerissa and the rest , stand all aloof . Let music sound while he doth make his choice ; Then , if he lose , he makes a swan-like end , Fading in music : that the comparison May stand more proper , my eye shall be the stream And watery death-bed for him . He may win ; And what is music then ? Then music is Even as the flourish when true subjects bow To a new-crowned monarch : such it is As are those dulcet sounds in break of day That creep into the dreaming bridegroom 's ear , And summon him to marriage . Now he goes , With no less presence , but with much more love , Than young Alcides , when he did redeem The virgin tribute paid by howling Troy To the sea-monster : I stand for sacrifice The rest aloof are the Dardanian wives , With bleared visages , come forth to view The issue of the exploit . Go , Hercules ! Live thou , I live : with much , much more dismay I view the fight than thou that makest the fray . Music , whilst BASSANIO comments on the caskets to himself SONG . Tell me where is fancy bred , Or in the heart , or in the head ? How begot , how nourished ? Reply , reply . It is engender 'd in the eyes , With gazing fed ; and fancy dies In the cradle where it lies . Let us all ring fancy 's knell I 'll begin it , --Ding , dong , bell .
ALL : Ding , dong , bell .
