ANTONIO : And what of him ? did he take interest ?
SHYLOCK : No , not take interest , not , as you would say , Directly interest : mark what Jacob did . When Laban and himself were compromised That all the eanlings which were streak 'd and pied Should fall as Jacob 's hire , the ewes , being rank , In the end of autumn turned to the rams , And , when the work of generation was Between these woolly breeders in the act , The skilful shepherd peel 'd me certain wands , And , in the doing of the deed of kind , He stuck them up before the fulsome ewes , Who then conceiving did in eaning time Fall parti-colour 'd lambs , and those were Jacob 's . This was a way to thrive , and he was blest : And thrift is blessing , if men steal it not .
ANTONIO : This was a venture , sir , that Jacob served for ; A thing not in his power to bring to pass , But sway 'd and fashion 'd by the hand of heaven . Was this inserted to make interest good ? Or is your gold and silver ewes and rams ?
SHYLOCK : I cannot tell ; I make it breed as fast : But note me , signior .
ANTONIO : Mark you this , Bassanio , The devil can cite Scripture for his purpose . An evil soul producing holy witness Is like a villain with a smiling cheek , A goodly apple rotten at the heart : O , what a goodly outside falsehood hath !
SHYLOCK : Three thousand ducats ; ' tis a good round sum . Three months from twelve ; then , let me see ; the rate--
ANTONIO : Well , Shylock , shall we be beholding to you ?
SHYLOCK : Signior Antonio , many a time and oft In the Rialto you have rated me About my moneys and my usances : Still have I borne it with a patient shrug , For sufferance is the badge of all our tribe . You call me misbeliever , cut-throat dog , And spit upon my Jewish gaberdine , And all for use of that which is mine own . Well then , it now appears you need my help : Go to , then ; you come to me , and you say ' Shylock , we would have moneys : ' you say so ; You , that did void your rheum upon my beard And foot me as you spurn a stranger cur Over your threshold : moneys is your suit What should I say to you ? Should I not say ' Hath a dog money ? is it possible A cur can lend three thousand ducats ? ' Or Shall I bend low and in a bondman 's key , With bated breath and whispering humbleness , Say this ; ' Fair sir , you spit on me on Wednesday last ; You spurn 'd me such a day ; another time You call 'd me dog ; and for these courtesies I 'll lend you thus much moneys ' ?
ANTONIO : I am as like to call thee so again , To spit on thee again , to spurn thee too . If thou wilt lend this money , lend it not As to thy friends ; for when did friendship take A breed for barren metal of his friend ? But lend it rather to thine enemy , Who , if he break , thou mayst with better face Exact the penalty .
SHYLOCK : Why , look you , how you storm ! I would be friends with you and have your love , Forget the shames that you have stain 'd me with , Supply your present wants and take no doit Of usance for my moneys , and you 'll not hear me : This is kind I offer .
BASSANIO : This were kindness .
