Servant : Where is my lady ?
PORTIA : Here : what would my lord ?
Servant : Madam , there is alighted at your gate A young Venetian , one that comes before To signify the approaching of his lord ; From whom he bringeth sensible regreets , To wit , besides commends and courteous breath , Gifts of rich value . Yet I have not seen So likely an ambassador of love : A day in April never came so sweet , To show how costly summer was at hand , As this fore-spurrer comes before his lord .
PORTIA : No more , I pray thee : I am half afeard Thou wilt say anon he is some kin to thee , Thou spend 'st such high-day wit in praising him . Come , come , Nerissa ; for I long to see Quick Cupid 's post that comes so mannerly .
NERISSA : Bassanio , lord Love , if thy will it be ! Enter SALANIO and SALARINO
SALANIO : Now , what news on the Rialto ?
SALARINO : Why , yet it lives there uncheck 'd that Antonio hath a ship of rich lading wrecked on the narrow seas ; the Goodwins , I think they call the place ; a very dangerous flat and fatal , where the carcasses of many a tall ship lie buried , as they say , if my gossip Report be an honest woman of her word .
SALANIO : I would she were as lying a gossip in that as ever knapped ginger or made her neighbours believe she wept for the death of a third husband . But it is true , without any slips of prolixity or crossing the plain highway of talk , that the good Antonio , the honest Antonio , --O that I had a title good enough to keep his name company ! --
SALARINO : Come , the full stop .
SALANIO : Ha ! what sayest thou ? Why , the end is , he hath lost a ship .
SALARINO : I would it might prove the end of his losses .
SALANIO : Let me say ' amen ' betimes , lest the devil cross my prayer , for here he comes in the likeness of a Jew . Enter SHYLOCK How now , Shylock ! what news among the merchants ?
SHYLOCK : You know , none so well , none so well as you , of my daughter 's flight .
SALARINO : That 's certain : I , for my part , knew the tailor that made the wings she flew withal .
SALANIO : And Shylock , for his own part , knew the bird was fledged ; and then it is the complexion of them all to leave the dam .
SHYLOCK : She is damned for it .
SALANIO : That 's certain , if the devil may be her judge .
SHYLOCK : My own flesh and blood to rebel !
SALANIO : Out upon it , old carrion ! rebels it at these years ?
SHYLOCK : I say , my daughter is my flesh and blood .
SALARINO : There is more difference between thy flesh and hers than between jet and ivory ; more between your bloods than there is between red wine and rhenish . But tell us , do you hear whether Antonio have had any loss at sea or no ?
SHYLOCK : There I have another bad match : a bankrupt , a prodigal , who dare scarce show his head on the Rialto ; a beggar , that was used to come so smug upon the mart ; let him look to his bond : he was wont to call me usurer ; let him look to his bond : he was wont to lend money for a Christian courtesy ; let him look to his bond .
SALARINO : Why , I am sure , if he forfeit , thou wilt not take his flesh : what 's that good for ?
