LAUNCELOT : Certainly my conscience will serve me to run from this Jew my master . The fiend is at mine elbow and tempts me saying to me ' Gobbo , Launcelot Gobbo , good Launcelot , ' or ' good Gobbo , ' or good Launcelot Gobbo , use your legs , take the start , run away . My conscience says ' No ; take heed , ' honest Launcelot ; take heed , honest Gobbo , or , as aforesaid , ' honest Launcelot Gobbo ; do not run ; scorn running with thy heels . ' Well , the most courageous fiend bids me pack : ' Via ! ' says the fiend ; ' away ! ' says the fiend ; ' for the heavens , rouse up a brave mind , ' says the fiend , ' and run . ' Well , my conscience , hanging about the neck of my heart , says very wisely to me ' My honest friend Launcelot , being an honest man 's son , ' or rather an honest woman 's son ; for , indeed , my father did something smack , something grow to , he had a kind of taste ; well , my conscience says ' Launcelot , budge not . ' ' Budge , ' says the fiend . ' Budge not , ' says my conscience . ' Conscience , ' say I , ' you counsel well ; ' ' Fiend , ' say I , ' you counsel well : ' to be ruled by my conscience , I should stay with the Jew my master , who , God bless the mark , is a kind of devil ; and , to run away from the Jew , I should be ruled by the fiend , who , saving your reverence , is the devil himself . Certainly the Jew is the very devil incarnal ; and , in my conscience , my conscience is but a kind of hard conscience , to offer to counsel me to stay with the Jew . The fiend gives the more friendly counsel : I will run , fiend ; my heels are at your command ; I will run . Enter Old GOBBO , with a basket
GOBBO : Master young man , you , I pray you , which is the way to master Jew 's ?
LAUNCELOT : O heavens , this is my true-begotten father ! who , being more than sand-blind , high-gravel blind , knows me not : I will try confusions with him .
GOBBO : Master young gentleman , I pray you , which is the way to master Jew 's ?
LAUNCELOT : Turn up on your right hand at the next turning , but , at the next turning of all , on your left ; marry , at the very next turning , turn of no hand , but turn down indirectly to the Jew 's house .
GOBBO : By God 's sonties , ' twill be a hard way to hit . Can you tell me whether one Launcelot , that dwells with him , dwell with him or no ?
LAUNCELOT : Talk you of young Master Launcelot ? Aside Mark me now ; now will I raise the waters . Talk you of young Master Launcelot ?
GOBBO : No master , sir , but a poor man 's son : his father , though I say it , is an honest exceeding poor man and , God be thanked , well to live .
LAUNCELOT : Well , let his father be what a ' will , we talk of young Master Launcelot .
GOBBO : Your worship 's friend and Launcelot , sir .
LAUNCELOT : But I pray you , ergo , old man , ergo , I beseech you , talk you of young Master Launcelot ?
GOBBO : Of Launcelot , an 't please your mastership .
LAUNCELOT : Ergo , Master Launcelot . Talk not of Master Launcelot , father ; for the young gentleman , according to Fates and Destinies and such odd sayings , the Sisters Three and such branches of learning , is indeed deceased , or , as you would say in plain terms , gone to heaven .
GOBBO : Marry , God forbid ! the boy was the very staff of my age , my very prop .
