GOBBO : Alack the day , I know you not , young gentleman : but , I pray you , tell me , is my boy , God rest his soul , alive or dead ?
LAUNCELOT : Do you not know me , father ?
GOBBO : Alack , sir , I am sand-blind ; I know you not .
LAUNCELOT : Nay , indeed , if you had your eyes , you might fail of the knowing me : it is a wise father that knows his own child . Well , old man , I will tell you news of your son : give me your blessing : truth will come to light ; murder cannot be hid long ; a man 's son may , but at the length truth will out .
GOBBO : Pray you , sir , stand up : I am sure you are not Launcelot , my boy .
LAUNCELOT : Pray you , let 's have no more fooling about it , but give me your blessing : I am Launcelot , your boy that was , your son that is , your child that shall be .
GOBBO : I cannot think you are my son .
LAUNCELOT : I know not what I shall think of that : but I am Launcelot , the Jew 's man , and I am sure Margery your wife is my mother .
GOBBO : Her name is Margery , indeed : I 'll be sworn , if thou be Launcelot , thou art mine own flesh and blood . Lord worshipped might he be ! what a beard hast thou got ! thou hast got more hair on thy chin than Dobbin my fill-horse has on his tail .
LAUNCELOT : It should seem , then , that Dobbin 's tail grows backward : I am sure he had more hair of his tail than I have of my face when I last saw him .
GOBBO : Lord , how art thou changed ! How dost thou and thy master agree ? I have brought him a present . How ' gree you now ?
LAUNCELOT : Well , well : but , for mine own part , as I have set up my rest to run away , so I will not rest till I have run some ground . My master 's a very Jew : give him a present ! give him a halter : I am famished in his service ; you may tell every finger I have with my ribs . Father , I am glad you are come : give me your present to one Master Bassanio , who , indeed , gives rare new liveries : if I serve not him , I will run as far as God has any ground . O rare fortune ! here comes the man : to him , father ; for I am a Jew , if I serve the Jew any longer . Enter BASSANIO , with LEONARDO and other followers
BASSANIO : You may do so ; but let it be so hasted that supper be ready at the farthest by five of the clock . See these letters delivered ; put the liveries to making , and desire Gratiano to come anon to my lodging . Exit a Servant
LAUNCELOT : To him , father .
GOBBO : God bless your worship !
BASSANIO : Gramercy ! wouldst thou aught with me ?
GOBBO : Here 's my son , sir , a poor boy , --
LAUNCELOT : Not a poor boy , sir , but the rich Jew 's man ; that would , sir , as my father shall specify--
GOBBO : He hath a great infection , sir , as one would say , to serve--
LAUNCELOT : Indeed , the short and the long is , I serve the Jew , and have a desire , as my father shall specify--
GOBBO : His master and he , saving your worship 's reverence , are scarce cater-cousins--
LAUNCELOT : To be brief , the very truth is that the Jew , having done me wrong , doth cause me , as my father , being , I hope , an old man , shall frutify unto you--
GOBBO : I have here a dish of doves that I would bestow upon your worship , and my suit is--
