BASSANIO : In Belmont is a lady richly left ; And she is fair , and , fairer than that word , Of wondrous virtues : sometimes from her eyes I did receive fair speechless messages : Her name is Portia , nothing undervalued To Cato 's daughter , Brutus ' Portia : Nor is the wide world ignorant of her worth , For the four winds blow in from every coast Renowned suitors , and her sunny locks Hang on her temples like a golden fleece ; Which makes her seat of Belmont Colchos ' strand , And many Jasons come in quest of her . O my Antonio , had I but the means To hold a rival place with one of them , I have a mind presages me such thrift , That I should questionless be fortunate !
ANTONIO : Thou know 'st that all my fortunes are at sea ; Neither have I money nor commodity To raise a present sum : therefore go forth ; Try what my credit can in Venice do : That shall be rack 'd , even to the uttermost , To furnish thee to Belmont , to fair Portia . Go , presently inquire , and so will I , Where money is , and I no question make To have it of my trust or for my sake . SCENE II : Belmont . A room in PORTIA 'S house . Enter PORTIA and NERISSA
PORTIA : By my troth , Nerissa , my little body is aweary of this great world .
NERISSA : You would be , sweet madam , if your miseries were in the same abundance as your good fortunes are : and yet , for aught I see , they are as sick that surfeit with too much as they that starve with nothing . It is no mean happiness therefore , to be seated in the mean : superfluity comes sooner by white hairs , but competency lives longer .
PORTIA : Good sentences and well pronounced .
NERISSA : They would be better , if well followed .
PORTIA : If to do were as easy as to know what were good to do , chapels had been churches and poor men 's cottages princes ' palaces . It is a good divine that follows his own instructions : I can easier teach twenty what were good to be done , than be one of the twenty to follow mine own teaching . The brain may devise laws for the blood , but a hot temper leaps o 'er a cold decree : such a hare is madness the youth , to skip o 'er the meshes of good counsel the cripple . But this reasoning is not in the fashion to choose me a husband . O me , the word ' choose ! ' I may neither choose whom I would nor refuse whom I dislike ; so is the will of a living daughter curbed by the will of a dead father . Is it not hard , Nerissa , that I cannot choose one nor refuse none ?
NERISSA : Your father was ever virtuous ; and holy men at their death have good inspirations : therefore the lottery , that he hath devised in these three chests of gold , silver and lead , whereof who chooses his meaning chooses you , will , no doubt , never be chosen by any rightly but one who shall rightly love . But what warmth is there in your affection towards any of these princely suitors that are already come ?
PORTIA : I pray thee , over-name them ; and as thou namest them , I will describe them ; and , according to my description , level at my affection .
NERISSA : First , there is the Neapolitan prince .
PORTIA : Ay , that 's a colt indeed , for he doth nothing but talk of his horse ; and he makes it a great appropriation to his own good parts , that he can shoe him himself . I am much afeard my lady his mother played false with a smith .
NERISSA : Then there is the County Palatine .
