ANTONIO : Content , i ' faith : I 'll seal to such a bond And say there is much kindness in the Jew .
BASSANIO : You shall not seal to such a bond for me : I 'll rather dwell in my necessity .
ANTONIO : Why , fear not , man ; I will not forfeit it : Within these two months , that 's a month before This bond expires , I do expect return Of thrice three times the value of this bond .
SHYLOCK : O father Abram , what these Christians are , Whose own hard dealings teaches them suspect The thoughts of others ! Pray you , tell me this ; If he should break his day , what should I gain By the exaction of the forfeiture ? A pound of man 's flesh taken from a man Is not so estimable , profitable neither , As flesh of muttons , beefs , or goats . I say , To buy his favour , I extend this friendship : If he will take it , so ; if not , adieu ; And , for my love , I pray you wrong me not .
ANTONIO : Yes Shylock , I will seal unto this bond .
SHYLOCK : Then meet me forthwith at the notary 's ; Give him direction for this merry bond , And I will go and purse the ducats straight , See to my house , left in the fearful guard Of an unthrifty knave , and presently I will be with you .
ANTONIO : Hie thee , gentle Jew . Exit Shylock The Hebrew will turn Christian : he grows kind .
BASSANIO : I like not fair terms and a villain 's mind .
ANTONIO : Come on : in this there can be no dismay ; My ships come home a month before the day . Flourish of cornets . Enter the PRINCE OF MOROCCO and his train ; PORTIA , NERISSA , and others attending
MOROCCO : Mislike me not for my complexion , The shadow 'd livery of the burnish 'd sun , To whom I am a neighbour and near bred . Bring me the fairest creature northward born , Where Phoebus ' fire scarce thaws the icicles , And let us make incision for your love , To prove whose blood is reddest , his or mine . I tell thee , lady , this aspect of mine Hath fear 'd the valiant : by my love I swear The best-regarded virgins of our clime Have loved it too : I would not change this hue , Except to steal your thoughts , my gentle queen .
PORTIA : In terms of choice I am not solely led By nice direction of a maiden 's eyes ; Besides , the lottery of my destiny Bars me the right of voluntary choosing : But if my father had not scanted me And hedged me by his wit , to yield myself His wife who wins me by that means I told you , Yourself , renowned prince , then stood as fair As any comer I have look 'd on yet For my affection .
MOROCCO : Even for that I thank you : Therefore , I pray you , lead me to the caskets To try my fortune . By this scimitar That slew the Sophy and a Persian prince That won three fields of Sultan Solyman , I would outstare the sternest eyes that look , Outbrave the heart most daring on the earth , Pluck the young sucking cubs from the she-bear , Yea , mock the lion when he roars for prey , To win thee , lady . But , alas the while ! If Hercules and Lichas play at dice Which is the better man , the greater throw May turn by fortune from the weaker hand : So is Alcides beaten by his page ; And so may I , blind fortune leading me , Miss that which one unworthier may attain , And die with grieving .
PORTIA : You must take your chance , And either not attempt to choose at all Or swear before you choose , if you choose wrong Never to speak to lady afterward In way of marriage : therefore be advised .
MOROCCO : Nor will not . Come , bring me unto my chance .
PORTIA : First , forward to the temple : after dinner Your hazard shall be made .
