NERISSA : ' Tis well you offer it behind her back ; The wish would make else an unquiet house .
SHYLOCK : These be the Christian husbands . I have a daughter ; Would any of the stock of Barrabas Had been her husband rather than a Christian ! Aside We trifle time : I pray thee , pursue sentence .
PORTIA : A pound of that same merchant 's flesh is thine : The court awards it , and the law doth give it .
SHYLOCK : Most rightful judge !
PORTIA : And you must cut this flesh from off his breast : The law allows it , and the court awards it .
SHYLOCK : Most learned judge ! A sentence ! Come , prepare !
PORTIA : Tarry a little ; there is something else . This bond doth give thee here no jot of blood ; The words expressly are ' a pound of flesh : ' Take then thy bond , take thou thy pound of flesh ; But , in the cutting it , if thou dost shed One drop of Christian blood , thy lands and goods Are , by the laws of Venice , confiscate Unto the state of Venice .
GRATIANO : O upright judge ! Mark , Jew : O learned judge !
SHYLOCK : Is that the law ?
PORTIA : Thyself shalt see the act : For , as thou urgest justice , be assured Thou shalt have justice , more than thou desirest .
GRATIANO : O learned judge ! Mark , Jew : a learned judge !
SHYLOCK : I take this offer , then ; pay the bond thrice And let the Christian go .
BASSANIO : Here is the money .
PORTIA : Soft ! The Jew shall have all justice ; soft ! no haste : He shall have nothing but the penalty .
GRATIANO : O Jew ! an upright judge , a learned judge !
PORTIA : Therefore prepare thee to cut off the flesh . Shed thou no blood , nor cut thou less nor more But just a pound of flesh : if thou cut 'st more Or less than a just pound , be it but so much As makes it light or heavy in the substance , Or the division of the twentieth part Of one poor scruple , nay , if the scale do turn But in the estimation of a hair , Thou diest and all thy goods are confiscate .
GRATIANO : A second Daniel , a Daniel , Jew ! Now , infidel , I have you on the hip .
PORTIA : Why doth the Jew pause ? take thy forfeiture .
SHYLOCK : Give me my principal , and let me go .
BASSANIO : I have it ready for thee ; here it is .
PORTIA : He hath refused it in the open court : He shall have merely justice and his bond .
GRATIANO : A Daniel , still say I , a second Daniel ! I thank thee , Jew , for teaching me that word .
SHYLOCK : Shall I not have barely my principal ?
PORTIA : Thou shalt have nothing but the forfeiture , To be so taken at thy peril , Jew .
SHYLOCK : Why , then the devil give him good of it ! I 'll stay no longer question .
PORTIA : Tarry , Jew : The law hath yet another hold on you . It is enacted in the laws of Venice , If it be proved against an alien That by direct or indirect attempts He seek the life of any citizen , The party ' gainst the which he doth contrive Shall seize one half his goods ; the other half Comes to the privy coffer of the state ; And the offender 's life lies in the mercy Of the duke only , ' gainst all other voice . In which predicament , I say , thou stand 'st ; For it appears , by manifest proceeding , That indirectly and directly too Thou hast contrived against the very life Of the defendant ; and thou hast incurr 'd The danger formerly by me rehearsed . Down therefore and beg mercy of the duke .
