SHYLOCK : Till thou canst rail the seal from off my bond , Thou but offend 'st thy lungs to speak so loud : Repair thy wit , good youth , or it will fall To cureless ruin . I stand here for law .
DUKE : This letter from Bellario doth commend A young and learned doctor to our court . Where is he ?
NERISSA : He attendeth here hard by , To know your answer , whether you 'll admit him .
DUKE : With all my heart . Some three or four of you Go give him courteous conduct to this place . Meantime the court shall hear Bellario 's letter .
Clerk : Your grace shall understand that at the receipt of your letter I am very sick : but in the instant that your messenger came , in loving visitation was with me a young doctor of Rome ; his name is Balthasar . I acquainted him with the cause in controversy between the Jew and Antonio the merchant : we turned o 'er many books together : he is furnished with my opinion ; which , bettered with his own learning , the greatness whereof I cannot enough commend , comes with him , at my importunity , to fill up your grace 's request in my stead . I beseech you , let his lack of years be no impediment to let him lack a reverend estimation ; for I never knew so young a body with so old a head . I leave him to your gracious acceptance , whose trial shall better publish his commendation .
DUKE : You hear the learn 'd Bellario , what he writes : And here , I take it , is the doctor come . Enter PORTIA , dressed like a doctor of laws Give me your hand . Come you from old Bellario ?
PORTIA : I did , my lord .
DUKE : You are welcome : take your place . Are you acquainted with the difference That holds this present question in the court ?
PORTIA : I am informed thoroughly of the cause . Which is the merchant here , and which the Jew ?
DUKE : Antonio and old Shylock , both stand forth .
PORTIA : Is your name Shylock ?
SHYLOCK : Shylock is my name .
PORTIA : Of a strange nature is the suit you follow ; Yet in such rule that the Venetian law Cannot impugn you as you do proceed . You stand within his danger , do you not ?
ANTONIO : Ay , so he says .
PORTIA : Do you confess the bond ?
ANTONIO : I do .
PORTIA : Then must the Jew be merciful .
SHYLOCK : On what compulsion must I ? tell me that .
PORTIA : The quality of mercy is not strain 'd , It droppeth as the gentle rain from heaven Upon the place beneath : it is twice blest ; It blesseth him that gives and him that takes : ' Tis mightiest in the mightiest : it becomes The throned monarch better than his crown ; His sceptre shows the force of temporal power , The attribute to awe and majesty , Wherein doth sit the dread and fear of kings ; But mercy is above this sceptred sway ; It is enthroned in the hearts of kings , It is an attribute to God himself ; And earthly power doth then show likest God 's When mercy seasons justice . Therefore , Jew , Though justice be thy plea , consider this , That , in the course of justice , none of us Should see salvation : we do pray for mercy ; And that same prayer doth teach us all to render The deeds of mercy . I have spoke thus much To mitigate the justice of thy plea ; Which if thou follow , this strict court of Venice Must needs give sentence ' gainst the merchant there .
SHYLOCK : My deeds upon my head ! I crave the law , The penalty and forfeit of my bond .
PORTIA : Is he not able to discharge the money ?
