PORTIA : It must not be ; there is no power in Venice Can alter a decree established : ' Twill be recorded for a precedent , And many an error by the same example Will rush into the state : it cannot be .
SHYLOCK : A Daniel come to judgment ! yea , a Daniel ! O wise young judge , how I do honour thee !
PORTIA : I pray you , let me look upon the bond .
SHYLOCK : Here ' tis , most reverend doctor , here it is .
PORTIA : Shylock , there 's thrice thy money offer 'd thee .
SHYLOCK : An oath , an oath , I have an oath in heaven : Shall I lay perjury upon my soul ? No , not for Venice .
PORTIA : Why , this bond is forfeit ; And lawfully by this the Jew may claim A pound of flesh , to be by him cut off Nearest the merchant 's heart . Be merciful : Take thrice thy money ; bid me tear the bond .
SHYLOCK : When it is paid according to the tenor . It doth appear you are a worthy judge ; You know the law , your exposition Hath been most sound : I charge you by the law , Whereof you are a well-deserving pillar , Proceed to judgment : by my soul I swear There is no power in the tongue of man To alter me : I stay here on my bond .
ANTONIO : Most heartily I do beseech the court To give the judgment .
PORTIA : Why then , thus it is : You must prepare your bosom for his knife .
SHYLOCK : O noble judge ! O excellent young man !
PORTIA : For the intent and purpose of the law Hath full relation to the penalty , Which here appeareth due upon the bond .
SHYLOCK : ' Tis very true : O wise and upright judge ! How much more elder art thou than thy looks !
PORTIA : Therefore lay bare your bosom .
SHYLOCK : Ay , his breast : So says the bond : doth it not , noble judge ? ' Nearest his heart : ' those are the very words .
PORTIA : It is so . Are there balance here to weigh The flesh ?
SHYLOCK : I have them ready .
PORTIA : Have by some surgeon , Shylock , on your charge , To stop his wounds , lest he do bleed to death .
SHYLOCK : Is it so nominated in the bond ?
PORTIA : It is not so express 'd : but what of that ? ' Twere good you do so much for charity .
SHYLOCK : I cannot find it ; ' tis not in the bond .
PORTIA : You , merchant , have you any thing to say ?
ANTONIO : But little : I am arm 'd and well prepared . Give me your hand , Bassanio : fare you well ! Grieve not that I am fallen to this for you ; For herein Fortune shows herself more kind Than is her custom : it is still her use To let the wretched man outlive his wealth , To view with hollow eye and wrinkled brow An age of poverty ; from which lingering penance Of such misery doth she cut me off . Commend me to your honourable wife : Tell her the process of Antonio 's end ; Say how I loved you , speak me fair in death ; And , when the tale is told , bid her be judge Whether Bassanio had not once a love . Repent but you that you shall lose your friend , And he repents not that he pays your debt ; For if the Jew do cut but deep enough , I 'll pay it presently with all my heart .
BASSANIO : Antonio , I am married to a wife Which is as dear to me as life itself ; But life itself , my wife , and all the world , Are not with me esteem 'd above thy life : I would lose all , ay , sacrifice them all Here to this devil , to deliver you .
PORTIA : Your wife would give you little thanks for that , If she were by , to hear you make the offer .
