ANTONIO : Let him alone : I 'll follow him no more with bootless prayers . He seeks my life ; his reason well I know : I oft deliver 'd from his forfeitures Many that have at times made moan to me ; Therefore he hates me .
SALARINO : I am sure the duke Will never grant this forfeiture to hold .
ANTONIO : The duke cannot deny the course of law : For the commodity that strangers have With us in Venice , if it be denied , Will much impeach the justice of his state ; Since that the trade and profit of the city Consisteth of all nations . Therefore , go : These griefs and losses have so bated me , That I shall hardly spare a pound of flesh To-morrow to my bloody creditor . Well , gaoler , on . Pray God , Bassanio come To see me pay his debt , and then I care not ! Enter PORTIA , NERISSA , LORENZO , JESSICA , and BALTHASAR
LORENZO : Madam , although I speak it in your presence , You have a noble and a true conceit Of godlike amity ; which appears most strongly In bearing thus the absence of your lord . But if you knew to whom you show this honour , How true a gentleman you send relief , How dear a lover of my lord your husband , I know you would be prouder of the work Than customary bounty can enforce you .
PORTIA : I never did repent for doing good , Nor shall not now : for in companions That do converse and waste the time together , Whose souls do bear an equal yoke Of love , There must be needs a like proportion Of lineaments , of manners and of spirit ; Which makes me think that this Antonio , Being the bosom lover of my lord , Must needs be like my lord . If it be so , How little is the cost I have bestow 'd In purchasing the semblance of my soul From out the state of hellish misery ! This comes too near the praising of myself ; Therefore no more of it : hear other things . Lorenzo , I commit into your hands The husbandry and manage of my house Until my lord 's return : for mine own part , I have toward heaven breathed a secret vow To live in prayer and contemplation , Only attended by Nerissa here , Until her husband and my lord 's return : There is a monastery two miles off ; And there will we abide . I do desire you Not to deny this imposition ; The which my love and some necessity Now lays upon you .
LORENZO : Madam , with all my heart ; I shall obey you in all fair commands .
PORTIA : My people do already know my mind , And will acknowledge you and Jessica In place of Lord Bassanio and myself . And so farewell , till we shall meet again .
LORENZO : Fair thoughts and happy hours attend on you !
JESSICA : I wish your ladyship all heart 's content .
PORTIA : I thank you for your wish , and am well pleased To wish it back on you : fare you well Jessica . Now , Balthasar , As I have ever found thee honest-true , So let me find thee still . Take this same letter , And use thou all the endeavour of a man In speed to Padua : see thou render this Into my cousin 's hand , Doctor Bellario ; And , look , what notes and garments he doth give thee , Bring them , I pray thee , with imagined speed Unto the tranect , to the common ferry Which trades to Venice . Waste no time in words , But get thee gone : I shall be there before thee .
BALTHASAR : Madam , I go with all convenient speed . Exit
PORTIA : Come on , Nerissa ; I have work in hand That you yet know not of : we 'll see our husbands Before they think of us .
NERISSA : Shall they see us ?
