CASSIO : An inviting eye ; and yet methinks right modest .
IAGO : And when she speaks , is it not an alarum to love ?
CASSIO : She is indeed perfection .
IAGO : Well , happiness to their sheets ! Come , lieutenant , I have a stoup of wine ; and here without are a brace of Cyprus gallants that would fain have a measure to the health of black Othello .
CASSIO : Not to-night , good Iago : I have very poor and unhappy brains for drinking : I could well wish courtesy would invent some other custom of entertainment .
IAGO : O , they are our friends ; but one cup : I 'll drink for you .
CASSIO : I have drunk but one cup to-night , and that was craftily qualified too , and , behold , what innovation it makes here : I am unfortunate in the infirmity , and dare not task my weakness with any more .
IAGO : What , man ! ' tis a night of revels : the gallants desire it .
CASSIO : Where are they ?
IAGO : Here at the door ; I pray you , call them in .
CASSIO : I 'll do 't ; but it dislikes me . Exit
IAGO : If I can fasten but one cup upon him , With that which he hath drunk to-night already , He 'll be as full of quarrel and offence As my young mistress ' dog . Now , my sick fool Roderigo , Whom love hath turn 'd almost the wrong side out , To Desdemona hath to-night caroused Potations pottle-deep ; and he 's to watch : Three lads of Cyprus , noble swelling spirits , That hold their honours in a wary distance , The very elements of this warlike isle , Have I to-night fluster 'd with flowing cups , And they watch too . Now , ' mongst this flock of drunkards , Am I to put our Cassio in some action That may offend the isle.--But here they come : If consequence do but approve my dream , My boat sails freely , both with wind and stream . Re-enter CASSIO ; with him MONTANO and Gentlemen ; servants following with wine
CASSIO : ' Fore God , they have given me a rouse already .
MONTANO : Good faith , a little one ; not past a pint , as I am a soldier .
IAGO : Some wine , ho ! Sings And let me the canakin clink , clink ; And let me the canakin clink A soldier 's a man ; A life 's but a span ; Why , then , let a soldier drink . Some wine , boys !
CASSIO : ' Fore God , an excellent song .
IAGO : I learned it in England , where , indeed , they are most potent in potting : your Dane , your German , and your swag-bellied Hollander--Drink , ho ! --are nothing to your English .
CASSIO : Is your Englishman so expert in his drinking ?
IAGO : Why , he drinks you , with facility , your Dane dead drunk ; he sweats not to overthrow your Almain ; he gives your Hollander a vomit , ere the next pottle can be filled .
CASSIO : To the health of our general !
MONTANO : I am for it , lieutenant ; and I 'll do you justice .
IAGO : O sweet England ! King Stephen was a worthy peer , His breeches cost him but a crown ; He held them sixpence all too dear , With that he call 'd the tailor lown . He was a wight of high renown , And thou art but of low degree : ' Tis pride that pulls the country down ; Then take thine auld cloak about thee . Some wine , ho !
CASSIO : Why , this is a more exquisite song than the other .
IAGO : Will you hear 't again ?
CASSIO : No ; for I hold him to be unworthy of his place that does those things . Well , God 's above all ; and there be souls must be saved , and there be souls must not be saved .
IAGO : It 's true , good lieutenant .
