IAGO : I do not know : friends all but now , even now , In quarter , and in terms like bride and groom Devesting them for bed ; and then , but now-- As if some planet had unwitted men-- Swords out , and tilting one at other 's breast , In opposition bloody . I cannot speak Any beginning to this peevish odds ; And would in action glorious I had lost Those legs that brought me to a part of it !
OTHELLO : How comes it , Michael , you are thus forgot ?
CASSIO : I pray you , pardon me ; I cannot speak .
OTHELLO : Worthy Montano , you were wont be civil ; The gravity and stillness of your youth The world hath noted , and your name is great In mouths of wisest censure : what 's the matter , That you unlace your reputation thus And spend your rich opinion for the name Of a night-brawler ? give me answer to it .
MONTANO : Worthy Othello , I am hurt to danger : Your officer , Iago , can inform you , -- While I spare speech , which something now offends me , -- Of all that I do know : nor know I aught By me that 's said or done amiss this night ; Unless self-charity be sometimes a vice , And to defend ourselves it be a sin When violence assails us .
OTHELLO : Now , by heaven , My blood begins my safer guides to rule ; And passion , having my best judgment collied , Assays to lead the way : if I once stir , Or do but lift this arm , the best of you Shall sink in my rebuke . Give me to know How this foul rout began , who set it on ; And he that is approved in this offence , Though he had twinn 'd with me , both at a birth , Shall lose me . What ! in a town of war , Yet wild , the people 's hearts brimful of fear , To manage private and domestic quarrel , In night , and on the court and guard of safety ! ' Tis monstrous . Iago , who began 't ?
MONTANO : If partially affined , or leagued in office , Thou dost deliver more or less than truth , Thou art no soldier .
IAGO : Touch me not so near : I had rather have this tongue cut from my mouth Than it should do offence to Michael Cassio ; Yet , I persuade myself , to speak the truth Shall nothing wrong him . Thus it is , general . Montano and myself being in speech , There comes a fellow crying out for help : And Cassio following him with determined sword , To execute upon him . Sir , this gentleman Steps in to Cassio , and entreats his pause : Myself the crying fellow did pursue , Lest by his clamour--as it so fell out-- The town might fall in fright : he , swift of foot , Outran my purpose ; and I return 'd the rather For that I heard the clink and fall of swords , And Cassio high in oath ; which till to-night I ne 'er might say before . When I came back-- For this was brief--I found them close together , At blow and thrust ; even as again they were When you yourself did part them . More of this matter cannot I report : But men are men ; the best sometimes forget : Though Cassio did some little wrong to him , As men in rage strike those that wish them best , Yet surely Cassio , I believe , received From him that fled some strange indignity , Which patience could not pass .
OTHELLO : I know , Iago , Thy honesty and love doth mince this matter , Making it light to Cassio . Cassio , I love thee But never more be officer of mine . Re-enter DESDEMONA , attended Look , if my gentle love be not raised up ! I 'll make thee an example .
DESDEMONA : What 's the matter ?
