RODERIGO : Wilt thou be fast to my hopes , if I depend on the issue ?
IAGO : Thou art sure of me : --go , make money : --I have told thee often , and I re-tell thee again and again , I hate the Moor : my cause is hearted ; thine hath no less reason . Let us be conjunctive in our revenge against him : if thou canst cuckold him , thou dost thyself a pleasure , me a sport . There are many events in the womb of time which will be delivered . Traverse ! go , provide thy money . We will have more of this to-morrow . Adieu .
RODERIGO : Where shall we meet i ' the morning ?
IAGO : At my lodging .
RODERIGO : I 'll be with thee betimes .
IAGO : Go to ; farewell . Do you hear , Roderigo ?
RODERIGO : What say you ?
IAGO : No more of drowning , do you hear ?
RODERIGO : I am changed : I 'll go sell all my land . Exit
IAGO : Thus do I ever make my fool my purse : For I mine own gain 'd knowledge should profane , If I would time expend with such a snipe . But for my sport and profit . I hate the Moor : And it is thought abroad , that ' twixt my sheets He has done my office : I know not if 't be true ; But I , for mere suspicion in that kind , Will do as if for surety . He holds me well ; The better shall my purpose work on him . Cassio 's a proper man : let me see now : To get his place and to plume up my will In double knavery--How , how ? Let 's see : -- After some time , to abuse Othello 's ear That he is too familiar with his wife . He hath a person and a smooth dispose To be suspected , framed to make women false . The Moor is of a free and open nature , That thinks men honest that but seem to be so , And will as tenderly be led by the nose As asses are . I have 't . It is engender 'd . Hell and night Must bring this monstrous birth to the world 's light . Exit Enter MONTANO and two Gentlemen
MONTANO : What from the cape can you discern at sea ?
First Gentleman : Nothing at all : it is a highwrought flood ; I cannot , ' twixt the heaven and the main , Descry a sail .
MONTANO : Methinks the wind hath spoke aloud at land ; A fuller blast ne 'er shook our battlements : If it hath ruffian 'd so upon the sea , What ribs of oak , when mountains melt on them , Can hold the mortise ? What shall we hear of this ?
Second Gentleman : A segregation of the Turkish fleet : For do but stand upon the foaming shore , The chidden billow seems to pelt the clouds ; The wind-shaked surge , with high and monstrous mane , seems to cast water on the burning bear , And quench the guards of the ever-fixed pole : I never did like molestation view On the enchafed flood .
MONTANO : If that the Turkish fleet Be not enshelter 'd and embay 'd , they are drown 'd : It is impossible they bear it out . Enter a third Gentleman
Third Gentleman : News , lads ! our wars are done . The desperate tempest hath so bang 'd the Turks , That their designment halts : a noble ship of Venice Hath seen a grievous wreck and sufferance On most part of their fleet .
MONTANO : How ! is this true ?
Third Gentleman : The ship is here put in , A Veronesa ; Michael Cassio , Lieutenant to the warlike Moor Othello , Is come on shore : the Moor himself at sea , And is in full commission here for Cyprus .
MONTANO : I am glad on 't ; ' tis a worthy governor .
Third Gentleman : But this same Cassio , though he speak of comfort Touching the Turkish loss , yet he looks sadly , And prays the Moor be safe ; for they were parted With foul and violent tempest .
