CASSIO : Dost thou hear , my honest friend ?
Clown : No , I hear not your honest friend ; I hear you .
CASSIO : Prithee , keep up thy quillets . There 's a poor piece of gold for thee : if the gentlewoman that attends the general 's wife be stirring , tell her there 's one Cassio entreats her a little favour of speech : wilt thou do this ?
Clown : She is stirring , sir : if she will stir hither , I shall seem to notify unto her .
CASSIO : Do , good my friend . Exit Clown Enter IAGO In happy time , Iago .
IAGO : You have not been a-bed , then ?
CASSIO : Why , no ; the day had broke Before we parted . I have made bold , Iago , To send in to your wife : my suit to her Is , that she will to virtuous Desdemona Procure me some access .
IAGO : I 'll send her to you presently ; And I 'll devise a mean to draw the Moor Out of the way , that your converse and business May be more free .
CASSIO : I humbly thank you for 't . Exit IAGO I never knew A Florentine more kind and honest . Enter EMILIA
EMILIA : Good morrow , good Lieutenant : I am sorry For your displeasure ; but all will sure be well . The general and his wife are talking of it ; And she speaks for you stoutly : the Moor replies , That he you hurt is of great fame in Cyprus , And great affinity , and that in wholesome wisdom He might not but refuse you ; but he protests he loves you And needs no other suitor but his likings To take the safest occasion by the front To bring you in again .
CASSIO : Yet , I beseech you , If you think fit , or that it may be done , Give me advantage of some brief discourse With Desdemona alone .
EMILIA : Pray you , come in ; I will bestow you where you shall have time To speak your bosom freely .
CASSIO : I am much bound to you . Enter OTHELLO , IAGO , and Gentlemen
OTHELLO : These letters give , Iago , to the pilot ; And by him do my duties to the senate : That done , I will be walking on the works ; Repair there to me .
IAGO : Well , my good lord , I 'll do 't .
OTHELLO : This fortification , gentlemen , shall we see 't ?
Gentleman : We 'll wait upon your lordship . Enter DESDEMONA , CASSIO , and EMILIA
DESDEMONA : Be thou assured , good Cassio , I will do All my abilities in thy behalf .
EMILIA : Good madam , do : I warrant it grieves my husband , As if the case were his .
DESDEMONA : O , that 's an honest fellow . Do not doubt , Cassio , But I will have my lord and you again As friendly as you were .
CASSIO : Bounteous madam , Whatever shall become of Michael Cassio , He 's never any thing but your true servant .
DESDEMONA : I know 't ; I thank you . You do love my lord : You have known him long ; and be you well assured He shall in strangeness stand no further off Than in a polite distance .
CASSIO : Ay , but , lady , That policy may either last so long , Or feed upon such nice and waterish diet , Or breed itself so out of circumstance , That , I being absent and my place supplied , My general will forget my love and service .
DESDEMONA : Do not doubt that ; before Emilia here I give thee warrant of thy place : assure thee , If I do vow a friendship , I 'll perform it To the last article : my lord shall never rest ; I 'll watch him tame and talk him out of patience ; His bed shall seem a school , his board a shrift ; I 'll intermingle every thing he does With Cassio 's suit : therefore be merry , Cassio ; For thy solicitor shall rather die Than give thy cause away .
EMILIA : Madam , here comes my lord .
