GRATIANO : The woman falls ; sure , he hath kill 'd his wife .
EMILIA : Ay , ay : O , lay me by my mistress ' side .
GRATIANO : He 's gone , but his wife 's kill 'd .
MONTANO : ' Tis a notorious villain . Take you this weapon , Which I have here recover 'd from the Moor : Come , guard the door without ; let him not pass , But kill him rather . I 'll after that same villain , For ' tis a damned slave .
OTHELLO : I am not valiant neither , But ever puny whipster gets my sword : But why should honour outlive honesty ? Let it go all .
EMILIA : What did thy song bode , lady ? Hark , canst thou hear me ? I will play the swan . And die in music . Singing Willow , willow , willow , -- Moor , she was chaste ; she loved thee , cruel Moor ; So come my soul to bliss , as I speak true ; So speaking as I think , I die , I die . Dies
OTHELLO : I have another weapon in this chamber ; It is a sword of Spain , the ice-brook 's temper : -- O , here it is . Uncle , I must come forth .
GRATIANO : If thou attempt it , it will cost thee dear : Thou hast no weapon , and perforce must suffer .
OTHELLO : Look in upon me then and speak with me , Or , naked as I am , I will assault thee . Re-enter GRATIANO
GRATIANO : What is the matter ?
OTHELLO : Behold , I have a weapon ; A better never did itself sustain Upon a soldier 's thigh : I have seen the day , That , with this little arm and this good sword , I have made my way through more impediments Than twenty times your stop : but , O vain boast ! Who can control his fate ? ' tis not so now . Be not afraid , though you do see me weapon 'd ; Here is my journey 's end , here is my butt , And very sea-mark of my utmost sail . Do you go back dismay 'd ? ' tis a lost fear ; Man but a rush against Othello 's breast , And he retires . Where should Othello go ? Now , how dost thou look now ? O ill-starr 'd wench ! Pale as thy smock ! when we shall meet at compt , This look of thine will hurl my soul from heaven , And fiends will snatch at it . Cold , cold , my girl ! Even like thy chastity . O cursed slave ! Whip me , ye devils , From the possession of this heavenly sight ! Blow me about in winds ! roast me in sulphur ! Wash me in steep-down gulfs of liquid fire ! O Desdemona ! Desdemona ! dead ! Oh ! Oh ! Oh ! Enter LODOVICO . MONTANO , CASSIO carried in a chair , and Officers with IAGO , prisoner
LODOVICO : Where is this rash and most unfortunate man ?
OTHELLO : That 's he that was Othello : here I am .
LODOVICO : Where is that viper ? bring the villain forth .
OTHELLO : I look down towards his feet ; but that 's a fable . If that thou best a devil , I cannot kill thee . Wounds IAGO
LODOVICO : Wrench his sword from him .
IAGO : I bleed , sir ; but not kill 'd .
OTHELLO : I am not sorry neither : I 'ld have thee live ; For , in my sense , ' tis happiness to die .
LODOVICO : O thou Othello , thou wert once so good , Fall 'n in the practise of a damned slave , What shall be said to thee ?
OTHELLO : Why , any thing : An honourable murderer , if you will ; For nought I did in hate , but all in honour .
LODOVICO : This wretch hath part confess 'd his villany : Did you and he consent in Cassio 's death ?
OTHELLO : Ay .
CASSIO : Dear general , I never gave you cause .
