IAGO : O , no ; he goes into Mauritania and takes away with him the fair Desdemona , unless his abode be lingered here by some accident : wherein none can be so determinate as the removing of Cassio .
RODERIGO : How do you mean , removing of him ?
IAGO : Why , by making him uncapable of Othello 's place ; knocking out his brains .
RODERIGO : And that you would have me to do ?
IAGO : Ay , if you dare do yourself a profit and a right . He sups to-night with a harlotry , and thither will I go to him : he knows not yet of his horrorable fortune . If you will watch his going thence , which I will fashion to fall out between twelve and one , you may take him at your pleasure : I will be near to second your attempt , and he shall fall between us . Come , stand not amazed at it , but go along with me ; I will show you such a necessity in his death that you shall think yourself bound to put it on him . It is now high suppertime , and the night grows to waste : about it .
RODERIGO : I will hear further reason for this .
IAGO : And you shall be satisfied . Enter OTHELLO , LODOVICO , DESDEMONA , EMILIA and Attendants
LODOVICO : I do beseech you , sir , trouble yourself no further .
OTHELLO : O , pardon me : ' twill do me good to walk .
LODOVICO : Madam , good night ; I humbly thank your ladyship .
DESDEMONA : Your honour is most welcome .
OTHELLO : Will you walk , sir ? O , --Desdemona , --
DESDEMONA : My lord ?
OTHELLO : Get you to bed on the instant ; I will be returned forthwith : dismiss your attendant there : look it be done .
DESDEMONA : I will , my lord .
EMILIA : How goes it now ? he looks gentler than he did .
DESDEMONA : He says he will return incontinent : He hath commanded me to go to bed , And bade me to dismiss you .
EMILIA : Dismiss me !
DESDEMONA : It was his bidding : therefore , good Emilia , . Give me my nightly wearing , and adieu : We must not now displease him .
EMILIA : I would you had never seen him !
DESDEMONA : So would not I my love doth so approve him , That even his stubbornness , his cheques , his frowns-- Prithee , unpin me , --have grace and favour in them .
EMILIA : I have laid those sheets you bade me on the bed .
DESDEMONA : All 's one . Good faith , how foolish are our minds ! If I do die before thee prithee , shroud me In one of those same sheets .
EMILIA : Come , come you talk .
DESDEMONA : My mother had a maid call 'd Barbara : She was in love , and he she loved proved mad And did forsake her : she had a song of ' willow ; ' An old thing ' twas , but it express 'd her fortune , And she died singing it : that song to-night Will not go from my mind ; I have much to do , But to go hang my head all at one side , And sing it like poor Barbara . Prithee , dispatch .
EMILIA : Shall I go fetch your night-gown ?
DESDEMONA : No , unpin me here . This Lodovico is a proper man .
EMILIA : A very handsome man .
DESDEMONA : He speaks well .
EMILIA : I know a lady in Venice would have walked barefoot to Palestine for a touch of his nether lip .
