RODERIGO : What , ho , Brabantio ! Signior Brabantio , ho !
IAGO : Awake ! what , ho , Brabantio ! thieves ! thieves ! thieves ! Look to your house , your daughter and your bags ! Thieves ! thieves ! BRABANTIO appears above , at a window
BRABANTIO : What is the reason of this terrible summons ? What is the matter there ?
RODERIGO : Signior , is all your family within ?
IAGO : Are your doors lock 'd ?
BRABANTIO : Why , wherefore ask you this ?
IAGO : ' Zounds , sir , you 're robb 'd ; for shame , put on your gown ; Your heart is burst , you have lost half your soul ; Even now , now , very now , an old black ram Is topping your white ewe . Arise , arise ; Awake the snorting citizens with the bell , Or else the devil will make a grandsire of you : Arise , I say .
BRABANTIO : What , have you lost your wits ?
RODERIGO : Most reverend signior , do you know my voice ?
BRABANTIO : Not I what are you ?
RODERIGO : My name is Roderigo .
BRABANTIO : The worser welcome : I have charged thee not to haunt about my doors : In honest plainness thou hast heard me say My daughter is not for thee ; and now , in madness , Being full of supper and distempering draughts , Upon malicious bravery , dost thou come To start my quiet .
RODERIGO : Sir , sir , sir , --
BRABANTIO : But thou must needs be sure My spirit and my place have in them power To make this bitter to thee .
RODERIGO : Patience , good sir .
BRABANTIO : What tell 'st thou me of robbing ? this is Venice ; My house is not a grange .
RODERIGO : Most grave Brabantio , In simple and pure soul I come to you .
IAGO : ' Zounds , sir , you are one of those that will not serve God , if the devil bid you . Because we come to do you service and you think we are ruffians , you 'll have your daughter covered with a Barbary horse ; you 'll have your nephews neigh to you ; you 'll have coursers for cousins and gennets for germans .
BRABANTIO : What profane wretch art thou ?
IAGO : I am one , sir , that comes to tell you your daughter and the Moor are now making the beast with two backs .
BRABANTIO : Thou art a villain .
IAGO : You are--a senator .
BRABANTIO : This thou shalt answer ; I know thee , Roderigo .
RODERIGO : Sir , I will answer any thing . But , I beseech you , If 't be your pleasure and most wise consent , As partly I find it is , that your fair daughter , At this odd-even and dull watch o ' the night , Transported , with no worse nor better guard But with a knave of common hire , a gondolier , To the gross clasps of a lascivious Moor-- If this be known to you and your allowance , We then have done you bold and saucy wrongs ; But if you know not this , my manners tell me We have your wrong rebuke . Do not believe That , from the sense of all civility , I thus would play and trifle with your reverence : Your daughter , if you have not given her leave , I say again , hath made a gross revolt ; Tying her duty , beauty , wit and fortunes In an extravagant and wheeling stranger Of here and every where . Straight satisfy yourself : If she be in her chamber or your house , Let loose on me the justice of the state For thus deluding you .
BRABANTIO : Strike on the tinder , ho ! Give me a taper ! call up all my people ! This accident is not unlike my dream : Belief of it oppresses me already . Light , I say ! light ! Exit above
