IAGO : You are a fool ; go to .
DESDEMONA : O good Iago , What shall I do to win my lord again ? Good friend , go to him ; for , by this light of heaven , I know not how I lost him . Here I kneel : If e 'er my will did trespass ' gainst his love , Either in discourse of thought or actual deed , Or that mine eyes , mine ears , or any sense , Delighted them in any other form ; Or that I do not yet , and ever did . And ever will--though he do shake me off To beggarly divorcement--love him dearly , Comfort forswear me ! Unkindness may do much ; And his unkindness may defeat my life , But never taint my love . I cannot say ' whore : ' It does abhor me now I speak the word ; To do the act that might the addition earn Not the world 's mass of vanity could make me .
IAGO : I pray you , be content ; ' tis but his humour : The business of the state does him offence , And he does chide with you .
DESDEMONA : If ' twere no other--
IAGO : ' Tis but so , I warrant . Trumpets within Hark , how these instruments summon to supper ! The messengers of Venice stay the meat ; Go in , and weep not ; all things shall be well . Enter RODERIGO How now , Roderigo !
RODERIGO : I do not find that thou dealest justly with me .
IAGO : What in the contrary ?
RODERIGO : Every day thou daffest me with some device , Iago ; and rather , as it seems to me now , keepest from me all conveniency than suppliest me with the least advantage of hope . I will indeed no longer endure it , nor am I yet persuaded to put up in peace what already I have foolishly suffered .
IAGO : Will you hear me , Roderigo ?
RODERIGO : ' Faith , I have heard too much , for your words and performances are no kin together .
IAGO : You charge me most unjustly .
RODERIGO : With nought but truth . I have wasted myself out of my means . The jewels you have had from me to deliver to Desdemona would half have corrupted a votarist : you have told me she hath received them and returned me expectations and comforts of sudden respect and acquaintance , but I find none .
IAGO : Well ; go to ; very well .
RODERIGO : Very well ! go to ! I cannot go to , man ; nor ' tis not very well : nay , I think it is scurvy , and begin to find myself fobbed in it .
IAGO : Very well .
RODERIGO : I tell you ' tis not very well . I will make myself known to Desdemona : if she will return me my jewels , I will give over my suit and repent my unlawful solicitation ; if not , assure yourself I will seek satisfaction of you .
IAGO : You have said now .
RODERIGO : Ay , and said nothing but what I protest intendment of doing .
IAGO : Why , now I see there 's mettle in thee , and even from this instant to build on thee a better opinion than ever before . Give me thy hand , Roderigo : thou hast taken against me a most just exception ; but yet , I protest , I have dealt most directly in thy affair .
RODERIGO : It hath not appeared .
IAGO : I grant indeed it hath not appeared , and your suspicion is not without wit and judgment . But , Roderigo , if thou hast that in thee indeed , which I have greater reason to believe now than ever , I mean purpose , courage and valour , this night show it : if thou the next night following enjoy not Desdemona , take me from this world with treachery and devise engines for my life .
RODERIGO : Well , what is it ? is it within reason and compass ?
IAGO : Sir , there is especial commission come from Venice to depute Cassio in Othello 's place .
