RODERIGO : Well .
IAGO : Sir , he is rash and very sudden in choler , and haply may strike at you : provoke him , that he may ; for even out of that will I cause these of Cyprus to mutiny ; whose qualification shall come into no true taste again but by the displanting of Cassio . So shall you have a shorter journey to your desires by the means I shall then have to prefer them ; and the impediment most profitably removed , without the which there were no expectation of our prosperity .
RODERIGO : I will do this , if I can bring it to any opportunity .
IAGO : I warrant thee . Meet me by and by at the citadel : I must fetch his necessaries ashore . Farewell .
RODERIGO : Adieu . Exit
IAGO : That Cassio loves her , I do well believe it ; That she loves him , ' tis apt and of great credit : The Moor , howbeit that I endure him not , Is of a constant , loving , noble nature , And I dare think he 'll prove to Desdemona A most dear husband . Now , I do love her too ; Not out of absolute lust , though peradventure I stand accountant for as great a sin , But partly led to diet my revenge , For that I do suspect the lusty Moor Hath leap 'd into my seat ; the thought whereof Doth , like a poisonous mineral , gnaw my inwards ; And nothing can or shall content my soul Till I am even 'd with him , wife for wife , Or failing so , yet that I put the Moor At least into a jealousy so strong That judgment cannot cure . Which thing to do , If this poor trash of Venice , whom I trash For his quick hunting , stand the putting on , I 'll have our Michael Cassio on the hip , Abuse him to the Moor in the rank garb-- For I fear Cassio with my night-cap too-- Make the Moor thank me , love me and reward me . For making him egregiously an ass And practising upon his peace and quiet Even to madness . ' Tis here , but yet confused : Knavery 's plain face is never seen tin used . Exit Enter a Herald with a proclamation ; People following
Herald : It is Othello 's pleasure , our noble and valiant general , that , upon certain tidings now arrived , importing the mere perdition of the Turkish fleet , every man put himself into triumph ; some to dance , some to make bonfires , each man to what sport and revels his addiction leads him : for , besides these beneficial news , it is the celebration of his nuptial . So much was his pleasure should be proclaimed . All offices are open , and there is full liberty of feasting from this present hour of five till the bell have told eleven . Heaven bless the isle of Cyprus and our noble general Othello ! Enter OTHELLO , DESDEMONA , CASSIO , and Attendants
OTHELLO : Good Michael , look you to the guard to-night : Let 's teach ourselves that honourable stop , Not to outsport discretion .
CASSIO : Iago hath direction what to do ; But , notwithstanding , with my personal eye Will I look to 't .
OTHELLO : Iago is most honest . Michael , good night : to-morrow with your earliest Let me have speech with you . To DESDEMONA Come , my dear love , The purchase made , the fruits are to ensue ; That profit 's yet to come ' tween me and you . Good night . Enter IAGO
CASSIO : Welcome , Iago ; we must to the watch .
IAGO : Not this hour , lieutenant ; ' tis not yet ten o ' the clock . Our general cast us thus early for the love of his Desdemona ; who let us not therefore blame : he hath not yet made wanton the night with her ; and she is sport for Jove .
CASSIO : She 's a most exquisite lady .
IAGO : And , I 'll warrant her , fun of game .
CASSIO : Indeed , she 's a most fresh and delicate creature .
