IAGO : Demand me nothing : what you know , you know : From this time forth I never will speak word .
LODOVICO : What , not to pray ?
GRATIANO : Torments will ope your lips .
OTHELLO : Well , thou dost best .
LODOVICO : Sir , you shall understand what hath befall 'n , Which , as I think , you know not . Here is a letter Found in the pocket of the slain Roderigo ; And here another : the one of them imports The death of Cassio to be undertook By Roderigo .
OTHELLO : O villain !
CASSIO : Most heathenish and most gross !
LODOVICO : Now here 's another discontented paper , Found in his pocket too ; and this , it seems , Roderigo meant to have sent this damned villain ; But that belike Iago in the interim Came in and satisfied him .
OTHELLO : O the pernicious caitiff ! How came you , Cassio , by that handkerchief That was my wife 's ?
CASSIO : I found it in my chamber : And he himself confess 'd but even now That there he dropp 'd it for a special purpose Which wrought to his desire .
OTHELLO : O fool ! fool ! fool !
CASSIO : There is besides in Roderigo 's letter , How he upbraids Iago , that he made him Brave me upon the watch ; whereon it came That I was cast : and even but now he spake , After long seeming dead , Iago hurt him , Iago set him on .
LODOVICO : You must forsake this room , and go with us : Your power and your command is taken off , And Cassio rules in Cyprus . For this slave , If there be any cunning cruelty That can torment him much and hold him long , It shall be his . You shall close prisoner rest , Till that the nature of your fault be known To the Venetian state . Come , bring him away .
OTHELLO : Soft you ; a word or two before you go . I have done the state some service , and they know 't . No more of that . I pray you , in your letters , When you shall these unlucky deeds relate , Speak of me as I am ; nothing extenuate , Nor set down aught in malice : then must you speak Of one that loved not wisely but too well ; Of one not easily jealous , but being wrought Perplex 'd in the extreme ; of one whose hand , Like the base Indian , threw a pearl away Richer than all his tribe ; of one whose subdued eyes , Albeit unused to the melting mood , Drop tears as fast as the Arabian trees Their medicinal gum . Set you down this ; And say besides , that in Aleppo once , Where a malignant and a turban 'd Turk Beat a Venetian and traduced the state , I took by the throat the circumcised dog , And smote him , thus . Stabs himself
LODOVICO : O bloody period !
GRATIANO : All that 's spoke is marr 'd .
OTHELLO : I kiss 'd thee ere I kill 'd thee : no way but this ; Killing myself , to die upon a kiss . Falls on the bed , and dies
CASSIO : This did I fear , but thought he had no weapon ; For he was great of heart .
