EMILIA : If it be not for some purpose of import , Give 't me again : poor lady , she 'll run mad When she shall lack it .
IAGO : Be not acknown on ' t ; I have use for it . Go , leave me . Exit EMILIA I will in Cassio 's lodging lose this napkin , And let him find it . Trifles light as air Are to the jealous confirmations strong As proofs of holy writ : this may do something . The Moor already changes with my poison : Dangerous conceits are , in their natures , poisons . Which at the first are scarce found to distaste , But with a little act upon the blood . Burn like the mines of Sulphur . I did say so : Look , where he comes ! Re-enter OTHELLO Not poppy , nor mandragora , Nor all the drowsy syrups of the world , Shall ever medicine thee to that sweet sleep Which thou owedst yesterday .
OTHELLO : Ha ! ha ! false to me ?
IAGO : Why , how now , general ! no more of that .
OTHELLO : Avaunt ! be gone ! thou hast set me on the rack : I swear ' tis better to be much abused Than but to know 't a little .
IAGO : How now , my lord !
OTHELLO : What sense had I of her stol 'n hours of lust ? I saw 't not , thought it not , it harm 'd not me : I slept the next night well , was free and merry ; I found not Cassio 's kisses on her lips : He that is robb 'd , not wanting what is stol 'n , Let him not know 't , and he 's not robb 'd at all .
IAGO : I am sorry to hear this .
OTHELLO : I had been happy , if the general camp , Pioners and all , had tasted her sweet body , So I had nothing known . O , now , for ever Farewell the tranquil mind ! farewell content ! Farewell the plumed troop , and the big wars , That make ambition virtue ! O , farewell ! Farewell the neighing steed , and the shrill trump , The spirit-stirring drum , the ear-piercing fife , The royal banner , and all quality , Pride , pomp and circumstance of glorious war ! And , O you mortal engines , whose rude throats The immortal Jove 's dead clamours counterfeit , Farewell ! Othello 's occupation 's gone !
IAGO : Is 't possible , my lord ?
OTHELLO : Villain , be sure thou prove my love a whore , Be sure of it ; give me the ocular proof : Or by the worth of man 's eternal soul , Thou hadst been better have been born a dog Than answer my waked wrath !
IAGO : Is 't come to this ?
OTHELLO : Make me to see 't ; or , at the least , so prove it , That the probation bear no hinge nor loop To hang a doubt on ; or woe upon thy life !
IAGO : My noble lord , --
OTHELLO : If thou dost slander her and torture me , Never pray more ; abandon all remorse ; On horror 's head horrors accumulate ; Do deeds to make heaven weep , all earth amazed ; For nothing canst thou to damnation add Greater than that .
IAGO : O grace ! O heaven forgive me ! Are you a man ? have you a soul or sense ? God be wi ' you ; take mine office . O wretched fool . That livest to make thine honesty a vice ! O monstrous world ! Take note , take note , O world , To be direct and honest is not safe . I thank you for this profit ; and from hence I 'll love no friend , sith love breeds such offence .
OTHELLO : Nay , stay : thou shouldst be honest .
IAGO : I should be wise , for honesty 's a fool And loses that it works for .
