OTHELLO : Let her have your voices . Vouch with me , heaven , I therefore beg it not , To please the palate of my appetite , Nor to comply with heat--the young affects In me defunct--and proper satisfaction . But to be free and bounteous to her mind : And heaven defend your good souls , that you think I will your serious and great business scant For she is with me : no , when light-wing 'd toys Of feather 'd Cupid seal with wanton dullness My speculative and officed instruments , That my disports corrupt and taint my business , Let housewives make a skillet of my helm , And all indign and base adversities Make head against my estimation !
DUKE OF VENICE : Be it as you shall privately determine , Either for her stay or going : the affair cries haste , And speed must answer it .
First Senator : You must away to-night .
OTHELLO : With all my heart .
DUKE OF VENICE : At nine i ' the morning here we 'll meet again . Othello , leave some officer behind , And he shall our commission bring to you ; With such things else of quality and respect As doth import you .
OTHELLO : So please your grace , my ancient ; A man he is of honest and trust : To his conveyance I assign my wife , With what else needful your good grace shall think To be sent after me .
DUKE OF VENICE : Let it be so . Good night to every one . To BRABANTIO And , noble signior , If virtue no delighted beauty lack , Your son-in-law is far more fair than black .
First Senator : Adieu , brave Moor , use Desdemona well .
BRABANTIO : Look to her , Moor , if thou hast eyes to see : She has deceived her father , and may thee .
OTHELLO : My life upon her faith ! Honest Iago , My Desdemona must I leave to thee : I prithee , let thy wife attend on her : And bring them after in the best advantage . Come , Desdemona : I have but an hour Of love , of worldly matters and direction , To spend with thee : we must obey the time .
RODERIGO : Iago , --
IAGO : What say 'st thou , noble heart ?
RODERIGO : What will I do , thinkest thou ?
IAGO : Why , go to bed , and sleep .
RODERIGO : I will incontinently drown myself .
IAGO : If thou dost , I shall never love thee after . Why , thou silly gentleman !
RODERIGO : It is silliness to live when to live is torment ; and then have we a prescription to die when death is our physician .
IAGO : O villainous ! I have looked upon the world for four times seven years ; and since I could distinguish betwixt a benefit and an injury , I never found man that knew how to love himself . Ere I would say , I would drown myself for the love of a guinea-hen , I would change my humanity with a baboon .
RODERIGO : What should I do ? I confess it is my shame to be so fond ; but it is not in my virtue to amend it .
IAGO : Virtue ! a fig ! ' tis in ourselves that we are thus or thus . Our bodies are our gardens , to the which our wills are gardeners : so that if we will plant nettles , or sow lettuce , set hyssop and weed up thyme , supply it with one gender of herbs , or distract it with many , either to have it sterile with idleness , or manured with industry , why , the power and corrigible authority of this lies in our wills . If the balance of our lives had not one scale of reason to poise another of sensuality , the blood and baseness of our natures would conduct us to most preposterous conclusions : but we have reason to cool our raging motions , our carnal stings , our unbitted lusts , whereof I take this that you call love to be a sect or scion .
RODERIGO : It cannot be .
