DESDEMONA : The heavens forbid But that our loves and comforts should increase , Even as our days do grow !
OTHELLO : Amen to that , sweet powers ! I cannot speak enough of this content ; It stops me here ; it is too much of joy : And this , and this , the greatest discords be Kissing her That e 'er our hearts shall make !
IAGO : O , you are well tuned now ! But I 'll set down the pegs that make this music , As honest as I am .
OTHELLO : Come , let us to the castle . News , friends ; our wars are done , the Turks are drown 'd . How does my old acquaintance of this isle ? Honey , you shall be well desired in Cyprus ; I have found great love amongst them . O my sweet , I prattle out of fashion , and I dote In mine own comforts . I prithee , good Iago , Go to the bay and disembark my coffers : Bring thou the master to the citadel ; He is a good one , and his worthiness Does challenge much respect . Come , Desdemona , Once more , well met at Cyprus .
IAGO : Do thou meet me presently at the harbour . Come hither . If thou be 'st valiant , -- as , they say , base men being in love have then a nobility in their natures more than is native to them--list me . The lieutenant tonight watches on the court of guard : --first , I must tell thee this--Desdemona is directly in love with him .
RODERIGO : With him ! why , ' tis not possible .
IAGO : Lay thy finger thus , and let thy soul be instructed . Mark me with what violence she first loved the Moor , but for bragging and telling her fantastical lies : and will she love him still for prating ? let not thy discreet heart think it . Her eye must be fed ; and what delight shall she have to look on the devil ? When the blood is made dull with the act of sport , there should be , again to inflame it and to give satiety a fresh appetite , loveliness in favour , sympathy in years , manners and beauties ; all which the Moor is defective in : now , for want of these required conveniences , her delicate tenderness will find itself abused , begin to heave the gorge , disrelish and abhor the Moor ; very nature will instruct her in it and compel her to some second choice . Now , sir , this granted , --as it is a most pregnant and unforced position--who stands so eminent in the degree of this fortune as Cassio does ? a knave very voluble ; no further conscionable than in putting on the mere form of civil and humane seeming , for the better compassing of his salt and most hidden loose affection ? why , none ; why , none : a slipper and subtle knave , a finder of occasions , that has an eye can stamp and counterfeit advantages , though true advantage never present itself ; a devilish knave . Besides , the knave is handsome , young , and hath all those requisites in him that folly and green minds look after : a pestilent complete knave ; and the woman hath found him already .
RODERIGO : I cannot believe that in her ; she 's full of most blessed condition .
IAGO : Blessed fig 's-end ! the wine she drinks is made of grapes : if she had been blessed , she would never have loved the Moor . Blessed pudding ! Didst thou not see her paddle with the palm of his hand ? didst not mark that ?
RODERIGO : Yes , that I did ; but that was but courtesy .
