BIANCA : Let the devil and his dam haunt you ! What did you mean by that same handkerchief you gave me even now ? I was a fine fool to take it . I must take out the work ? --A likely piece of work , that you should find it in your chamber , and not know who left it there ! This is some minx 's token , and I must take out the work ? There ; give it your hobby-horse : wheresoever you had it , I 'll take out no work on 't .
CASSIO : How now , my sweet Bianca ! how now ! how now !
OTHELLO : By heaven , that should be my handkerchief !
BIANCA : An you 'll come to supper to-night , you may ; an you will not , come when you are next prepared for . Exit
IAGO : After her , after her .
CASSIO : ' Faith , I must ; she 'll rail in the street else .
IAGO : Will you sup there ?
CASSIO : ' Faith , I intend so .
IAGO : Well , I may chance to see you ; for I would very fain speak with you .
CASSIO : Prithee , come ; will you ?
IAGO : Go to ; say no more . Exit CASSIO
OTHELLO : How shall I murder him , Iago ?
IAGO : Did you perceive how he laughed at his vice ?
OTHELLO : O Iago !
IAGO : And did you see the handkerchief ?
OTHELLO : Was that mine ?
IAGO : Yours by this hand : and to see how he prizes the foolish woman your wife ! she gave it him , and he hath given it his whore .
OTHELLO : I would have him nine years a-killing . A fine woman ! a fair woman ! a sweet woman !
IAGO : Nay , you must forget that .
OTHELLO : Ay , let her rot , and perish , and be damned to-night ; for she shall not live : no , my heart is turned to stone ; I strike it , and it hurts my hand . O , the world hath not a sweeter creature : she might lie by an emperor 's side and command him tasks .
IAGO : Nay , that 's not your way .
OTHELLO : Hang her ! I do but say what she is : so delicate with her needle : an admirable musician : O ! she will sing the savageness out of a bear : of so high and plenteous wit and invention : --
IAGO : She 's the worse for all this .
OTHELLO : O , a thousand thousand times : and then , of so gentle a condition !
IAGO : Ay , too gentle .
OTHELLO : Nay , that 's certain : but yet the pity of it , Iago ! O Iago , the pity of it , Iago !
IAGO : If you are so fond over her iniquity , give her patent to offend ; for , if it touch not you , it comes near nobody .
OTHELLO : I will chop her into messes : cuckold me !
IAGO : O , ' tis foul in her .
OTHELLO : With mine officer !
IAGO : That 's fouler .
OTHELLO : Get me some poison , Iago ; this night : I 'll not expostulate with her , lest her body and beauty unprovide my mind again : this night , Iago .
IAGO : Do it not with poison , strangle her in her bed , even the bed she hath contaminated .
OTHELLO : Good , good : the justice of it pleases : very good .
IAGO : And for Cassio , let me be his undertaker : you shall hear more by midnight .
OTHELLO : Excellent good . A trumpet within What trumpet is that same ?
IAGO : Something from Venice , sure . ' Tis Lodovico Come from the duke : and , see , your wife is with him . Enter LODOVICO , DESDEMONA , and Attendants
LODOVICO : Save you , worthy general !
OTHELLO : With all my heart , sir .
LODOVICO : The duke and senators of Venice greet you . Gives him a letter
OTHELLO : I kiss the instrument of their pleasures . Opens the letter , and reads
