Third Gentleman : Come , let 's do so : For every minute is expectancy Of more arrivance . Enter CASSIO
CASSIO : Thanks , you the valiant of this warlike isle , That so approve the Moor ! O , let the heavens Give him defence against the elements , For I have lost us him on a dangerous sea .
MONTANO : Is he well shipp 'd ?
CASSIO : His bark is stoutly timber 'd , his pilot Of very expert and approved allowance ; Therefore my hopes , not surfeited to death , Stand in bold cure . A cry within ' A sail , a sail , a sail ! ' Enter a fourth Gentleman
CASSIO : What noise ?
Fourth Gentleman : The town is empty ; on the brow o ' the sea Stand ranks of people , and they cry ' A sail ! '
CASSIO : My hopes do shape him for the governor . Guns heard
Second Gentlemen : They do discharge their shot of courtesy : Our friends at least .
CASSIO : I pray you , sir , go forth , And give us truth who ' tis that is arrived .
Second Gentleman : I shall . Exit
MONTANO : But , good lieutenant , is your general wived ?
CASSIO : Most fortunately : he hath achieved a maid That paragons description and wild fame ; One that excels the quirks of blazoning pens , And in the essential vesture of creation Does tire the ingener . Re-enter second Gentleman How now ! who has put in ?
Second Gentleman : ' Tis one Iago , ancient to the general .
CASSIO : Has had most favourable and happy speed : Tempests themselves , high seas , and howling winds , The gutter 'd rocks and congregated sands-- Traitors ensteep 'd to clog the guiltless keel , -- As having sense of beauty , do omit Their mortal natures , letting go safely by The divine Desdemona .
MONTANO : What is she ?
CASSIO : She that I spake of , our great captain 's captain , Left in the conduct of the bold Iago , Whose footing here anticipates our thoughts A se 'nnight 's speed . Great Jove , Othello guard , And swell his sail with thine own powerful breath , That he may bless this bay with his tall ship , Make love 's quick pants in Desdemona 's arms , Give renew 'd fire to our extincted spirits And bring all Cyprus comfort ! Enter DESDEMONA , EMILIA , IAGO , RODERIGO , and Attendants O , behold , The riches of the ship is come on shore ! Ye men of Cyprus , let her have your knees . Hail to thee , lady ! and the grace of heaven , Before , behind thee , and on every hand , Enwheel thee round !
DESDEMONA : I thank you , valiant Cassio . What tidings can you tell me of my lord ?
CASSIO : He is not yet arrived : nor know I aught But that he 's well and will be shortly here .
DESDEMONA : O , but I fear--How lost you company ?
CASSIO : The great contention of the sea and skies Parted our fellowship--But , hark ! a sail . Within ' A sail , a sail ! ' Guns heard
Second Gentleman : They give their greeting to the citadel ; This likewise is a friend .
CASSIO : See for the news . Exit Gentleman Good ancient , you are welcome . To EMILIA Welcome , mistress . Let it not gall your patience , good Iago , That I extend my manners ; ' tis my breeding That gives me this bold show of courtesy . Kissing her
IAGO : Sir , would she give you so much of her lips As of her tongue she oft bestows on me , You 'll have enough .
DESDEMONA : Alas , she has no speech .
IAGO : In faith , too much ; I find it still , when I have list to sleep : Marry , before your ladyship , I grant , She puts her tongue a little in her heart , And chides with thinking .
EMILIA : You have little cause to say so .
