IAGO : And so do I too , lieutenant .
CASSIO : Ay , but , by your leave , not before me ; the lieutenant is to be saved before the ancient . Let 's have no more of this ; let 's to our affairs.--Forgive us our sins ! --Gentlemen , let 's look to our business . Do not think , gentlemen . I am drunk : this is my ancient ; this is my right hand , and this is my left : I am not drunk now ; I can stand well enough , and speak well enough .
All : Excellent well .
CASSIO : Why , very well then ; you must not think then that I am drunk . Exit
MONTANO : To the platform , masters ; come , let 's set the watch .
IAGO : You see this fellow that is gone before ; He is a soldier fit to stand by Caesar And give direction : and do but see his vice ; ' Tis to his virtue a just equinox , The one as long as the other : ' tis pity of him . I fear the trust Othello puts him in . On some odd time of his infirmity , Will shake this island .
MONTANO : But is he often thus ?
IAGO : ' Tis evermore the prologue to his sleep : He 'll watch the horologe a double set , If drink rock not his cradle .
MONTANO : It were well The general were put in mind of it . Perhaps he sees it not ; or his good nature Prizes the virtue that appears in Cassio , And looks not on his evils : is not this true ? Enter RODERIGO
IAGO : How now , Roderigo ! I pray you , after the lieutenant ; go . Exit RODERIGO
MONTANO : And ' tis great pity that the noble Moor Should hazard such a place as his own second With one of an ingraft infirmity : It were an honest action to say So to the Moor .
IAGO : Not I , for this fair island : I do love Cassio well ; and would do much To cure him of this evil--But , hark ! what noise ? Cry within : ' Help ! help ! ' Re-enter CASSIO , driving in RODERIGO
CASSIO : You rogue ! you rascal !
MONTANO : What 's the matter , lieutenant ?
CASSIO : A knave teach me my duty ! I 'll beat the knave into a twiggen bottle .
RODERIGO : Beat me !
CASSIO : Dost thou prate , rogue ? Striking RODERIGO
MONTANO : Nay , good lieutenant ; Staying him I pray you , sir , hold your hand .
CASSIO : Let me go , sir , Or I 'll knock you o 'er the mazzard .
MONTANO : Come , come , you 're drunk .
CASSIO : Drunk ! They fight
IAGO : Away , I say ; go out , and cry a mutiny . Exit RODERIGO Nay , good lieutenant , --alas , gentlemen ; -- Help , ho ! --Lieutenant , --sir , --Montano , --sir ; Help , masters ! --Here 's a goodly watch indeed ! Bell rings Who 's that which rings the bell ? --Diablo , ho ! The town will rise : God 's will , lieutenant , hold ! You will be shamed for ever . Re-enter OTHELLO and Attendants
OTHELLO : What is the matter here ?
MONTANO : ' Zounds , I bleed still ; I am hurt to the death . Faints
OTHELLO : Hold , for your lives !
IAGO : Hold , ho ! Lieutenant , --sir--Montano , --gentlemen , -- Have you forgot all sense of place and duty ? Hold ! the general speaks to you ; hold , hold , for shame !
