GRATIANO : What , of Venice ?
IAGO : Even he , sir ; did you know him ?
GRATIANO : Know him ! ay .
IAGO : Signior Gratiano ? I cry you gentle pardon ; These bloody accidents must excuse my manners , That so neglected you .
GRATIANO : I am glad to see you .
IAGO : How do you , Cassio ? O , a chair , a chair !
GRATIANO : Roderigo !
IAGO : He , he ' tis he . A chair brought in O , that 's well said ; the chair !
GRATIANO : Some good man bear him carefully from hence ; I 'll fetch the general 's surgeon . To BIANCA For you , mistress , Save you your labour . He that lies slain here , Cassio , Was my dear friend : what malice was between you ?
CASSIO : None in the world ; nor do I know the man .
IAGO : What , look you pale ? O , bear him out o ' the air . CASSIO and RODERIGO are borne off Stay you , good gentlemen . Look you pale , mistress ? Do you perceive the gastness of her eye ? Nay , if you stare , we shall hear more anon . Behold her well ; I pray you , look upon her : Do you see , gentlemen ? nay , guiltiness will speak , Though tongues were out of use . Enter EMILIA
EMILIA : ' Las , what 's the matter ? what 's the matter , husband ?
IAGO : Cassio hath here been set on in the dark By Roderigo and fellows that are scaped : He 's almost slain , and Roderigo dead .
EMILIA : Alas , good gentleman ! alas , good Cassio !
IAGO : This is the fruit of whoring . Prithee , Emilia , Go know of Cassio where he supp 'd to-night . To BIANCA What , do you shake at that ?
BIANCA : He supp 'd at my house ; but I therefore shake not .
IAGO : O , did he so ? I charge you , go with me .
EMILIA : Fie , fie upon thee , strumpet !
BIANCA : I am no strumpet ; but of life as honest As you that thus abuse me .
EMILIA : As I ! foh ! fie upon thee !
IAGO : Kind gentlemen , let 's go see poor Cassio dress 'd . Come , mistress , you must tell 's another tale . Emilia run you to the citadel , And tell my lord and lady what hath happ 'd . Will you go on ? I pray . Aside This is the night That either makes me or fordoes me quite. a light burning . Enter OTHELLO
OTHELLO : It is the cause , it is the cause , my soul , -- Let me not name it to you , you chaste stars ! -- It is the cause . Yet I 'll not shed her blood ; Nor scar that whiter skin of hers than snow , And smooth as monumental alabaster . Yet she must die , else she 'll betray more men . Put out the light , and then put out the light : If I quench thee , thou flaming minister , I can again thy former light restore , Should I repent me : but once put out thy light , Thou cunning 'st pattern of excelling nature , I know not where is that Promethean heat That can thy light relume . When I have pluck 'd the rose , I cannot give it vital growth again . It must needs wither : I 'll smell it on the tree . Kissing her Ah balmy breath , that dost almost persuade Justice to break her sword ! One more , one more . Be thus when thou art dead , and I will kill thee , And love thee after . One more , and this the last : So sweet was ne 'er so fatal . I must weep , But they are cruel tears : this sorrow 's heavenly ; It strikes where it doth love . She wakes .
DESDEMONA : Who 's there ? Othello ?
OTHELLO : Ay . Desdemona .
DESDEMONA : Will you come to bed , my lord ?
OTHELLO : Have you pray 'd to-night , Desdemona ?
