EMILIA : Never , my lord .
OTHELLO : Nor send you out o ' the way ?
EMILIA : Never .
OTHELLO : To fetch her fan , her gloves , her mask , nor nothing ?
EMILIA : Never , my lord .
OTHELLO : That 's strange .
EMILIA : I durst , my lord , to wager she is honest , Lay down my soul at stake : if you think other , Remove your thought ; it doth abuse your bosom . If any wretch have put this in your head , Let heaven requite it with the serpent 's curse ! For , if she be not honest , chaste , and true , There 's no man happy ; the purest of their wives Is foul as slander .
OTHELLO : Bid her come hither : go . Exit EMILIA She says enough ; yet she 's a simple bawd That cannot say as much . This is a subtle whore , A closet lock and key of villanous secrets And yet she 'll kneel and pray ; I have seen her do 't . Enter DESDEMONA with EMILIA
DESDEMONA : My lord , what is your will ?
OTHELLO : Pray , chuck , come hither .
DESDEMONA : What is your pleasure ?
OTHELLO : Let me see your eyes ; Look in my face .
DESDEMONA : What horrible fancy 's this ?
OTHELLO : Some of your function , mistress ; Leave procreants alone and shut the door ; Cough , or cry ' hem , ' if any body come : Your mystery , your mystery : nay , dispatch . Exit EMILIA
DESDEMONA : Upon my knees , what doth your speech import ? I understand a fury in your words . But not the words .
OTHELLO : Why , what art thou ?
DESDEMONA : Your wife , my lord ; your true And loyal wife .
OTHELLO : Come , swear it , damn thyself Lest , being like one of heaven , the devils themselves Should fear to seize thee : therefore be double damn 'd : Swear thou art honest .
DESDEMONA : Heaven doth truly know it .
OTHELLO : Heaven truly knows that thou art false as hell .
DESDEMONA : To whom , my lord ? with whom ? how am I false ?
OTHELLO : O Desdemona ! away ! away ! away !
DESDEMONA : Alas the heavy day ! Why do you weep ? Am I the motive of these tears , my lord ? If haply you my father do suspect An instrument of this your calling back , Lay not your blame on me : If you have lost him , Why , I have lost him too .
OTHELLO : Had it pleased heaven To try me with affliction ; had they rain 'd All kinds of sores and shames on my bare head . Steep 'd me in poverty to the very lips , Given to captivity me and my utmost hopes , I should have found in some place of my soul A drop of patience : but , alas , to make me A fixed figure for the time of scorn To point his slow unmoving finger at ! Yet could I bear that too ; well , very well : But there , where I have garner 'd up my heart , Where either I must live , or bear no life ; The fountain from the which my current runs , Or else dries up ; to be discarded thence ! Or keep it as a cistern for foul toads To knot and gender in ! Turn thy complexion there , Patience , thou young and rose-lipp 'd cherubin , -- Ay , there , look grim as hell !
DESDEMONA : I hope my noble lord esteems me honest .
OTHELLO : O , ay ; as summer flies are in the shambles , That quicken even with blowing . O thou weed , Who art so lovely fair and smell 'st so sweet That the sense aches at thee , would thou hadst ne 'er been born !
DESDEMONA : Alas , what ignorant sin have I committed ?
