EMILIA : O , are you come , Iago ? you have done well , That men must lay their murders on your neck .
GRATIANO : What is the matter ?
EMILIA : Disprove this villain , if thou be 'st a man : He says thou told 'st him that his wife was false : I know thou didst not , thou 'rt not such a villain : Speak , for my heart is full .
IAGO : I told him what I thought , and told no more Than what he found himself was apt and true .
EMILIA : But did you ever tell him she was false ?
IAGO : I did .
EMILIA : You told a lie , an odious , damned lie ; Upon my soul , a lie , a wicked lie . She false with Cassio ! --did you say with Cassio ?
IAGO : With Cassio , mistress . Go to , charm your tongue .
EMILIA : I will not charm my tongue ; I am bound to speak : My mistress here lies murder 'd in her bed , --
All : O heavens forfend !
EMILIA : And your reports have set the murder on .
OTHELLO : Nay , stare not , masters : it is true , indeed .
GRATIANO : ' Tis a strange truth .
MONTANO : O monstrous act !
EMILIA : Villany , villany , villany ! I think upon 't , I think : I smell 't : O villany ! -- I thought so then : --I 'll kill myself for grief : -- O villany , villany !
IAGO : What , are you mad ? I charge you , get you home .
EMILIA : Good gentlemen , let me have leave to speak : ' Tis proper I obey him , but not now . Perchance , Iago , I will ne 'er go home .
OTHELLO : O ! O ! O ! He falls on the bed
EMILIA : Nay , lay thee down and roar ; For thou hast kill 'd the sweetest innocent That e 'er did lift up eye .
OTHELLO : O , she was foul ! I scarce did know you , uncle : there lies your niece , Whose breath , indeed , these hands have newly stopp 'd : I know this act shows horrible and grim .
GRATIANO : Poor Desdemona ! I am glad thy father 's dead : Thy match was mortal to him , and pure grief Shore his old thread in twain : did he live now , This sight would make him do a desperate turn , Yea , curse his better angel from his side , And fall to reprobation .
OTHELLO : ' Tis pitiful ; but yet Iago knows That she with Cassio hath the act of shame A thousand times committed ; Cassio confess 'd it : And she did gratify his amorous works With that recognizance and pledge of love Which I first gave her ; I saw it in his hand : It was a handkerchief , an antique token My father gave my mother .
EMILIA : O heaven ! O heavenly powers !
IAGO : Come , hold your peace .
EMILIA : ' Twill out , ' twill out : I peace ! No , I will speak as liberal as the north : Let heaven and men and devils , let them all , All , all , cry shame against me , yet I 'll speak .
IAGO : Be wise , and get you home .
EMILIA : I will not . IAGO offers to stab EMILIA
GRATIANO : Fie ! Your sword upon a woman ?
EMILIA : O thou dull Moor ! that handkerchief thou speak 'st of I found by fortune and did give my husband ; For often , with a solemn earnestness , More than indeed belong 'd to such a trifle , He begg 'd of me to steal it .
IAGO : Villanous whore !
EMILIA : She give it Cassio ! no , alas ! I found it , And I did give 't my husband .
IAGO : Filth , thou liest !
EMILIA : By heaven , I do not , I do not , gentlemen . O murderous coxcomb ! what should such a fool Do with so good a woman ?
