OTHELLO : O misery !
IAGO : Poor and content is rich and rich enough , But riches fineless is as poor as winter To him that ever fears he shall be poor . Good heaven , the souls of all my tribe defend From jealousy !
OTHELLO : Why , why is this ? Think 'st thou I 'ld make a lie of jealousy , To follow still the changes of the moon With fresh suspicions ? No ; to be once in doubt Is once to be resolved : exchange me for a goat , When I shall turn the business of my soul To such exsufflicate and blown surmises , Matching thy inference . ' Tis not to make me jealous To say my wife is fair , feeds well , loves company , Is free of speech , sings , plays and dances well ; Where virtue is , these are more virtuous : Nor from mine own weak merits will I draw The smallest fear or doubt of her revolt ; For she had eyes , and chose me . No , Iago ; I 'll see before I doubt ; when I doubt , prove ; And on the proof , there is no more but this , -- Away at once with love or jealousy !
IAGO : I am glad of it ; for now I shall have reason To show the love and duty that I bear you With franker spirit : therefore , as I am bound , Receive it from me . I speak not yet of proof . Look to your wife ; observe her well with Cassio ; Wear your eye thus , not jealous nor secure : I would not have your free and noble nature , Out of self-bounty , be abused ; look to 't : I know our country disposition well ; In Venice they do let heaven see the pranks They dare not show their husbands ; their best conscience Is not to leave 't undone , but keep 't unknown .
OTHELLO : Dost thou say so ?
IAGO : She did deceive her father , marrying you ; And when she seem 'd to shake and fear your looks , She loved them most .
OTHELLO : And so she did .
IAGO : Why , go to then ; She that , so young , could give out such a seeming , To seal her father 's eyes up close as oak- He thought ' twas witchcraft--but I am much to blame ; I humbly do beseech you of your pardon For too much loving you .
OTHELLO : I am bound to thee for ever .
IAGO : I see this hath a little dash 'd your spirits .
OTHELLO : Not a jot , not a jot .
IAGO : I ' faith , I fear it has . I hope you will consider what is spoke Comes from my love . But I do see you 're moved : I am to pray you not to strain my speech To grosser issues nor to larger reach Than to suspicion .
OTHELLO : I will not .
IAGO : Should you do so , my lord , My speech should fall into such vile success As my thoughts aim not at . Cassio 's my worthy friend-- My lord , I see you 're moved .
OTHELLO : No , not much moved : I do not think but Desdemona 's honest .
IAGO : Long live she so ! and long live you to think so !
OTHELLO : And yet , how nature erring from itself , --
IAGO : Ay , there 's the point : as--to be bold with you-- Not to affect many proposed matches Of her own clime , complexion , and degree , Whereto we see in all things nature tends-- Foh ! one may smell in such a will most rank , Foul disproportion thoughts unnatural . But pardon me ; I do not in position Distinctly speak of her ; though I may fear Her will , recoiling to her better judgment , May fall to match you with her country forms And happily repent .
OTHELLO : Farewell , farewell : If more thou dost perceive , let me know more ; Set on thy wife to observe : leave me , Iago :
IAGO : My lord , I take my leave .
