BRABANTIO : I pray you , hear her speak : If she confess that she was half the wooer , Destruction on my head , if my bad blame Light on the man ! Come hither , gentle mistress : Do you perceive in all this noble company Where most you owe obedience ?
DESDEMONA : My noble father , I do perceive here a divided duty : To you I am bound for life and education ; My life and education both do learn me How to respect you ; you are the lord of duty ; I am hitherto your daughter : but here 's my husband , And so much duty as my mother show 'd To you , preferring you before her father , So much I challenge that I may profess Due to the Moor my lord .
BRABANTIO : God be wi ' you ! I have done . Please it your grace , on to the state-affairs : I had rather to adopt a child than get it . Come hither , Moor : I here do give thee that with all my heart Which , but thou hast already , with all my heart I would keep from thee . For your sake , jewel , I am glad at soul I have no other child : For thy escape would teach me tyranny , To hang clogs on them . I have done , my lord .
DUKE OF VENICE : Let me speak like yourself , and lay a sentence , Which , as a grise or step , may help these lovers Into your favour . When remedies are past , the griefs are ended By seeing the worst , which late on hopes depended . To mourn a mischief that is past and gone Is the next way to draw new mischief on . What cannot be preserved when fortune takes Patience her injury a mockery makes . The robb 'd that smiles steals something from the thief ; He robs himself that spends a bootless grief .
BRABANTIO : So let the Turk of Cyprus us beguile ; We lose it not , so long as we can smile . He bears the sentence well that nothing bears But the free comfort which from thence he hears , But he bears both the sentence and the sorrow That , to pay grief , must of poor patience borrow . These sentences , to sugar , or to gall , Being strong on both sides , are equivocal : But words are words ; I never yet did hear That the bruised heart was pierced through the ear . I humbly beseech you , proceed to the affairs of state .
DUKE OF VENICE : The Turk with a most mighty preparation makes for Cyprus . Othello , the fortitude of the place is best known to you ; and though we have there a substitute of most allowed sufficiency , yet opinion , a sovereign mistress of effects , throws a more safer voice on you : you must therefore be content to slubber the gloss of your new fortunes with this more stubborn and boisterous expedition .
OTHELLO : The tyrant custom , most grave senators , Hath made the flinty and steel couch of war My thrice-driven bed of down : I do agnise A natural and prompt alacrity I find in hardness , and do undertake These present wars against the Ottomites . Most humbly therefore bending to your state , I crave fit disposition for my wife . Due reference of place and exhibition , With such accommodation and besort As levels with her breeding .
DUKE OF VENICE : If you please , Be 't at her father 's .
BRABANTIO : I 'll not have it so .
OTHELLO : Nor I.
DESDEMONA : Nor I ; I would not there reside , To put my father in impatient thoughts By being in his eye . Most gracious duke , To my unfolding lend your prosperous ear ; And let me find a charter in your voice , To assist my simpleness .
DUKE OF VENICE : What would You , Desdemona ?
