IAGO : Will you think so ?
OTHELLO : Think so , Iago !
IAGO : What , To kiss in private ?
OTHELLO : An unauthorized kiss .
IAGO : Or to be naked with her friend in bed An hour or more , not meaning any harm ?
OTHELLO : Naked in bed , Iago , and not mean harm ! It is hypocrisy against the devil : They that mean virtuously , and yet do so , The devil their virtue tempts , and they tempt heaven .
IAGO : So they do nothing , ' tis a venial slip : But if I give my wife a handkerchief , --
OTHELLO : What then ?
IAGO : Why , then , ' tis hers , my lord ; and , being hers , She may , I think , bestow 't on any man .
OTHELLO : She is protectress of her honour too : May she give that ?
IAGO : Her honour is an essence that 's not seen ; They have it very oft that have it not : But , for the handkerchief , --
OTHELLO : By heaven , I would most gladly have forgot it . Thou said 'st , it comes o 'er my memory , As doth the raven o 'er the infected house , Boding to all--he had my handkerchief .
IAGO : Ay , what of that ?
OTHELLO : That 's not so good now .
IAGO : What , If I had said I had seen him do you wrong ? Or heard him say , --as knaves be such abroad , Who having , by their own importunate suit , Or voluntary dotage of some mistress , Convinced or supplied them , cannot choose But they must blab--
OTHELLO : Hath he said any thing ?
IAGO : He hath , my lord ; but be you well assured , No more than he 'll unswear .
OTHELLO : What hath he said ?
IAGO : ' Faith , that he did--I know not what he did .
OTHELLO : What ? what ?
IAGO : Lie--
OTHELLO : With her ?
IAGO : With her , on her ; what you will .
OTHELLO : Lie with her ! lie on her ! We say lie on her , when they belie her . Lie with her ! that 's fulsome . --Handkerchief--confessions--handkerchief ! --To confess , and be hanged for his labour ; --first , to be hanged , and then to confess.--I tremble at it . Nature would not invest herself in such shadowing passion without some instruction . It is not words that shake me thus . Pish ! Noses , ears , and lips . --Is 't possible ? --Confess--handkerchief ! --O devil ! -- Falls in a trance
IAGO : Work on , My medicine , work ! Thus credulous fools are caught ; And many worthy and chaste dames even thus , All guiltless , meet reproach . What , ho ! my lord ! My lord , I say ! Othello ! Enter CASSIO How now , Cassio !
CASSIO : What 's the matter ?
IAGO : My lord is fall 'n into an epilepsy : This is his second fit ; he had one yesterday .
CASSIO : Rub him about the temples .
IAGO : No , forbear ; The lethargy must have his quiet course : If not , he foams at mouth and by and by Breaks out to savage madness . Look he stirs : Do you withdraw yourself a little while , He will recover straight : when he is gone , I would on great occasion speak with you . Exit CASSIO How is it , general ? have you not hurt your head ?
OTHELLO : Dost thou mock me ?
IAGO : I mock you ! no , by heaven . Would you would bear your fortune like a man !
OTHELLO : A horned man 's a monster and a beast .
IAGO : There 's many a beast then in a populous city , And many a civil monster .
OTHELLO : Did he confess it ?
