BRABANTIO : A maiden never bold ; Of spirit so still and quiet , that her motion Blush 'd at herself ; and she , in spite of nature , Of years , of country , credit , every thing , To fall in love with what she fear 'd to look on ! It is a judgment maim 'd and most imperfect That will confess perfection so could err Against all rules of nature , and must be driven To find out practises of cunning hell , Why this should be . I therefore vouch again That with some mixtures powerful o 'er the blood , Or with some dram conjured to this effect , He wrought upon her .
DUKE OF VENICE : To vouch this , is no proof , Without more wider and more overt test Than these thin habits and poor likelihoods Of modern seeming do prefer against him .
First Senator : But , Othello , speak : Did you by indirect and forced courses Subdue and poison this young maid 's affections ? Or came it by request and such fair question As soul to soul affordeth ?
OTHELLO : I do beseech you , Send for the lady to the Sagittary , And let her speak of me before her father : If you do find me foul in her report , The trust , the office I do hold of you , Not only take away , but let your sentence Even fall upon my life .
DUKE OF VENICE : Fetch Desdemona hither .
OTHELLO : Ancient , conduct them : you best know the place . And , till she come , as truly as to heaven I do confess the vices of my blood , So justly to your grave ears I 'll present How I did thrive in this fair lady 's love , And she in mine .
DUKE OF VENICE : Say it , Othello .
OTHELLO : Her father loved me ; oft invited me ; Still question 'd me the story of my life , From year to year , the battles , sieges , fortunes , That I have passed . I ran it through , even from my boyish days , To the very moment that he bade me tell it ; Wherein I spake of most disastrous chances , Of moving accidents by flood and field Of hair-breadth scapes i ' the imminent deadly breach , Of being taken by the insolent foe And sold to slavery , of my redemption thence And portance in my travels ' history : Wherein of antres vast and deserts idle , Rough quarries , rocks and hills whose heads touch heaven It was my hint to speak , --such was the process ; And of the Cannibals that each other eat , The Anthropophagi and men whose heads Do grow beneath their shoulders . This to hear Would Desdemona seriously incline : But still the house-affairs would draw her thence : Which ever as she could with haste dispatch , She 'ld come again , and with a greedy ear Devour up my discourse : which I observing , Took once a pliant hour , and found good means To draw from her a prayer of earnest heart That I would all my pilgrimage dilate , Whereof by parcels she had something heard , But not intentively : I did consent , And often did beguile her of her tears , When I did speak of some distressful stroke That my youth suffer 'd . My story being done , She gave me for my pains a world of sighs : She swore , in faith , twas strange , ' twas passing strange , ' Twas pitiful , ' twas wondrous pitiful : She wish 'd she had not heard it , yet she wish 'd That heaven had made her such a man : she thank 'd me , And bade me , if I had a friend that loved her , I should but teach him how to tell my story . And that would woo her . Upon this hint I spake : She loved me for the dangers I had pass 'd , And I loved her that she did pity them . This only is the witchcraft I have used : Here comes the lady ; let her witness it . Enter DESDEMONA , IAGO , and Attendants
