RODERIGO : Tush ! never tell me ; I take it much unkindly That thou , Iago , who hast had my purse As if the strings were thine , shouldst know of this .
IAGO : ' Sblood , but you will not hear me : If ever I did dream of such a matter , Abhor me .
RODERIGO : Thou told 'st me thou didst hold him in thy hate .
IAGO : Despise me , if I do not . Three great ones of the city , In personal suit to make me his lieutenant , Off-capp 'd to him : and , by the faith of man , I know my price , I am worth no worse a place : But he ; as loving his own pride and purposes , Evades them , with a bombast circumstance Horribly stuff 'd with epithets of war ; And , in conclusion , Nonsuits my mediators ; for , ' Certes , ' says he , ' I have already chose my officer . ' And what was he ? Forsooth , a great arithmetician , One Michael Cassio , a Florentine , A fellow almost damn 'd in a fair wife ; That never set a squadron in the field , Nor the division of a battle knows More than a spinster ; unless the bookish theoric , Wherein the toged consuls can propose As masterly as he : mere prattle , without practise , Is all his soldiership . But he , sir , had the election : And I , of whom his eyes had seen the proof At Rhodes , at Cyprus and on other grounds Christian and heathen , must be be-lee 'd and calm 'd By debitor and creditor : this counter-caster , He , in good time , must his lieutenant be , And I--God bless the mark ! --his Moorship 's ancient .
RODERIGO : By heaven , I rather would have been his hangman .
IAGO : Why , there 's no remedy ; ' tis the curse of service , Preferment goes by letter and affection , And not by old gradation , where each second Stood heir to the first . Now , sir , be judge yourself , Whether I in any just term am affined To love the Moor .
RODERIGO : I would not follow him then .
IAGO : O , sir , content you ; I follow him to serve my turn upon him : We cannot all be masters , nor all masters Cannot be truly follow 'd . You shall mark Many a duteous and knee-crooking knave , That , doting on his own obsequious bondage , Wears out his time , much like his master 's ass , For nought but provender , and when he 's old , cashier 'd : Whip me such honest knaves . Others there are Who , trimm 'd in forms and visages of duty , Keep yet their hearts attending on themselves , And , throwing but shows of service on their lords , Do well thrive by them and when they have lined their coats Do themselves homage : these fellows have some soul ; And such a one do I profess myself . For , sir , It is as sure as you are Roderigo , Were I the Moor , I would not be Iago : In following him , I follow but myself ; Heaven is my judge , not I for love and duty , But seeming so , for my peculiar end : For when my outward action doth demonstrate The native act and figure of my heart In compliment extern , ' tis not long after But I will wear my heart upon my sleeve For daws to peck at : I am not what I am .
RODERIGO : What a full fortune does the thicklips owe If he can carry 't thus !
IAGO : Call up her father , Rouse him : make after him , poison his delight , Proclaim him in the streets ; incense her kinsmen , And , though he in a fertile climate dwell , Plague him with flies : though that his joy be joy , Yet throw such changes of vexation on 't , As it may lose some colour .
RODERIGO : Here is her father 's house ; I 'll call aloud .
