BRABANTIO : It is too true an evil : gone she is ; And what 's to come of my despised time Is nought but bitterness . Now , Roderigo , Where didst thou see her ? O unhappy girl ! With the Moor , say 'st thou ? Who would be a father ! How didst thou know ' twas she ? O she deceives me Past thought ! What said she to you ? Get more tapers : Raise all my kindred . Are they married , think you ?
RODERIGO : Truly , I think they are .
BRABANTIO : O heaven ! How got she out ? O treason of the blood ! Fathers , from hence trust not your daughters ' minds By what you see them act . Is there not charms By which the property of youth and maidhood May be abused ? Have you not read , Roderigo , Of some such thing ?
RODERIGO : Yes , sir , I have indeed .
BRABANTIO : Call up my brother . O , would you had had her ! Some one way , some another . Do you know Where we may apprehend her and the Moor ?
RODERIGO : I think I can discover him , if you please , To get good guard and go along with me .
BRABANTIO : Pray you , lead on . At every house I 'll call ; I may command at most . Get weapons , ho ! And raise some special officers of night . On , good Roderigo : I 'll deserve your pains . Enter OTHELLO , IAGO , and Attendants with torches
IAGO : Though in the trade of war I have slain men , Yet do I hold it very stuff o ' the conscience To do no contrived murder : I lack iniquity Sometimes to do me service : nine or ten times I had thought to have yerk 'd him here under the ribs .
OTHELLO : ' Tis better as it is .
IAGO : Nay , but he prated , And spoke such scurvy and provoking terms Against your honour That , with the little godliness I have , I did full hard forbear him . But , I pray you , sir , Are you fast married ? Be assured of this , That the magnifico is much beloved , And hath in his effect a voice potential As double as the duke 's : he will divorce you ; Or put upon you what restraint and grievance The law , with all his might to enforce it on , Will give him cable .
OTHELLO : Let him do his spite : My services which I have done the signiory Shall out-tongue his complaints . ' Tis yet to know , -- Which , when I know that boasting is an honour , I shall promulgate--I fetch my life and being From men of royal siege , and my demerits May speak unbonneted to as proud a fortune As this that I have reach 'd : for know , Iago , But that I love the gentle Desdemona , I would not my unhoused free condition Put into circumscription and confine For the sea 's worth . But , look ! what lights come yond ?
IAGO : Those are the raised father and his friends : You were best go in .
OTHELLO : Not I I must be found : My parts , my title and my perfect soul Shall manifest me rightly . Is it they ?
IAGO : By Janus , I think no . Enter CASSIO , and certain Officers with torches
OTHELLO : The servants of the duke , and my lieutenant . The goodness of the night upon you , friends ! What is the news ?
CASSIO : The duke does greet you , general , And he requires your haste-post-haste appearance , Even on the instant .
OTHELLO : What is the matter , think you ?
CASSIO : Something from Cyprus as I may divine : It is a business of some heat : the galleys Have sent a dozen sequent messengers This very night at one another 's heels , And many of the consuls , raised and met , Are at the duke 's already : you have been hotly call 'd for ; When , being not at your lodging to be found , The senate hath sent about three several guests To search you out .
