IAGO : I see , sir , you are eaten up with passion : I do repent me that I put it to you . You would be satisfied ?
OTHELLO : Would ! nay , I will .
IAGO : And may : but , how ? how satisfied , my lord ? Would you , the supervisor , grossly gape on-- Behold her topp 'd ?
OTHELLO : Death and damnation ! O !
IAGO : It were a tedious difficulty , I think , To bring them to that prospect : damn them then , If ever mortal eyes do see them bolster More than their own ! What then ? how then ? What shall I say ? Where 's satisfaction ? It is impossible you should see this , Were they as prime as goats , as hot as monkeys , As salt as wolves in pride , and fools as gross As ignorance made drunk . But yet , I say , If imputation and strong circumstances , Which lead directly to the door of truth , Will give you satisfaction , you may have 't .
OTHELLO : Give me a living reason she 's disloyal .
IAGO : I do not like the office : But , sith I am enter 'd in this cause so far , Prick 'd to 't by foolish honesty and love , I will go on . I lay with Cassio lately ; And , being troubled with a raging tooth , I could not sleep . There are a kind of men so loose of soul , That in their sleeps will mutter their affairs : One of this kind is Cassio : In sleep I heard him say ' Sweet Desdemona , Let us be wary , let us hide our loves ; ' And then , sir , would he gripe and wring my hand , Cry ' O sweet creature ! ' and then kiss me hard , As if he pluck 'd up kisses by the roots That grew upon my lips : then laid his leg Over my thigh , and sigh 'd , and kiss 'd ; and then Cried ' Cursed fate that gave thee to the Moor ! '
OTHELLO : O monstrous ! monstrous !
IAGO : Nay , this was but his dream .
OTHELLO : But this denoted a foregone conclusion : ' Tis a shrewd doubt , though it be but a dream .
IAGO : And this may help to thicken other proofs That do demonstrate thinly .
OTHELLO : I 'll tear her all to pieces .
IAGO : Nay , but be wise : yet we see nothing done ; She may be honest yet . Tell me but this , Have you not sometimes seen a handkerchief Spotted with strawberries in your wife 's hand ?
OTHELLO : I gave her such a one ; ' twas my first gift .
IAGO : I know not that ; but such a handkerchief-- I am sure it was your wife 's--did I to-day See Cassio wipe his beard with .
OTHELLO : If it be that--
IAGO : If it be that , or any that was hers , It speaks against her with the other proofs .
OTHELLO : O , that the slave had forty thousand lives ! One is too poor , too weak for my revenge . Now do I see ' tis true . Look here , Iago ; All my fond love thus do I blow to heaven . ' Tis gone . Arise , black vengeance , from thy hollow cell ! Yield up , O love , thy crown and hearted throne To tyrannous hate ! Swell , bosom , with thy fraught , For ' tis of aspics ' tongues !
IAGO : Yet be content .
OTHELLO : O , blood , blood , blood !
IAGO : Patience , I say ; your mind perhaps may change .
