CASSIO : Ancient , what makes he here ?
IAGO : ' Faith , he to-night hath boarded a land carack : If it prove lawful prize , he 's made for ever .
CASSIO : I do not understand .
IAGO : He 's married .
CASSIO : To who ? Re-enter OTHELLO
IAGO : Marry , to--Come , captain , will you go ?
OTHELLO : Have with you .
CASSIO : Here comes another troop to seek for you .
IAGO : It is Brabantio . General , be advised ; He comes to bad intent . Enter BRABANTIO , RODERIGO , and Officers with torches and weapons
OTHELLO : Holla ! stand there !
RODERIGO : Signior , it is the Moor .
BRABANTIO : Down with him , thief ! They draw on both sides
IAGO : You , Roderigo ! come , sir , I am for you .
OTHELLO : Keep up your bright swords , for the dew will rust them . Good signior , you shall more command with years Than with your weapons .
BRABANTIO : O thou foul thief , where hast thou stow 'd my daughter ? Damn 'd as thou art , thou hast enchanted her ; For I 'll refer me to all things of sense , If she in chains of magic were not bound , Whether a maid so tender , fair and happy , So opposite to marriage that she shunned The wealthy curled darlings of our nation , Would ever have , to incur a general mock , Run from her guardage to the sooty bosom Of such a thing as thou , to fear , not to delight . Judge me the world , if ' tis not gross in sense That thou hast practised on her with foul charms , Abused her delicate youth with drugs or minerals That weaken motion : I 'll have 't disputed on ; ' Tis probable and palpable to thinking . I therefore apprehend and do attach thee For an abuser of the world , a practiser Of arts inhibited and out of warrant . Lay hold upon him : if he do resist , Subdue him at his peril .
OTHELLO : Hold your hands , Both you of my inclining , and the rest : Were it my cue to fight , I should have known it Without a prompter . Where will you that I go To answer this your charge ?
BRABANTIO : To prison , till fit time Of law and course of direct session Call thee to answer .
OTHELLO : What if I do obey ? How may the duke be therewith satisfied , Whose messengers are here about my side , Upon some present business of the state To bring me to him ?
First Officer : ' Tis true , most worthy signior ; The duke 's in council and your noble self , I am sure , is sent for .
BRABANTIO : How ! the duke in council ! In this time of the night ! Bring him away : Mine 's not an idle cause : the duke himself , Or any of my brothers of the state , Cannot but feel this wrong as ' twere their own ; For if such actions may have passage free , Bond-slaves and pagans shall our statesmen be . The DUKE and Senators sitting at a table ; Officers attending
DUKE OF VENICE : There is no composition in these news That gives them credit .
First Senator : Indeed , they are disproportion 'd ; My letters say a hundred and seven galleys .
DUKE OF VENICE : And mine , a hundred and forty .
Second Senator : And mine , two hundred : But though they jump not on a just account , -- As in these cases , where the aim reports , ' Tis oft with difference--yet do they all confirm A Turkish fleet , and bearing up to Cyprus .
DUKE OF VENICE : Nay , it is possible enough to judgment : I do not so secure me in the error , But the main article I do approve In fearful sense .
Sailor : What , ho ! what , ho ! what , ho !
First Officer : A messenger from the galleys . Enter a Sailor
DUKE OF VENICE : Now , what 's the business ?
