IAGO : My lord , I would I might entreat your honour To scan this thing no further ; leave it to time : Though it be fit that Cassio have his place , For sure , he fills it up with great ability , Yet , if you please to hold him off awhile , You shall by that perceive him and his means : Note , if your lady strain his entertainment With any strong or vehement importunity ; Much will be seen in that . In the mean time , Let me be thought too busy in my fears-- As worthy cause I have to fear I am-- And hold her free , I do beseech your honour .
OTHELLO : Fear not my government .
IAGO : I once more take my leave . Exit
OTHELLO : This fellow 's of exceeding honesty , And knows all qualities , with a learned spirit , Of human dealings . If I do prove her haggard , Though that her jesses were my dear heartstrings , I 'ld whistle her off and let her down the wind , To pray at fortune . Haply , for I am black And have not those soft parts of conversation That chamberers have , or for I am declined Into the vale of years , --yet that 's not much-- She 's gone . I am abused ; and my relief Must be to loathe her . O curse of marriage , That we can call these delicate creatures ours , And not their appetites ! I had rather be a toad , And live upon the vapour of a dungeon , Than keep a corner in the thing I love For others ' uses . Yet , ' tis the plague of great ones ; Prerogatived are they less than the base ; ' Tis destiny unshunnable , like death : Even then this forked plague is fated to us When we do quicken . Desdemona comes : Re-enter DESDEMONA and EMILIA If she be false , O , then heaven mocks itself ! I 'll not believe 't .
DESDEMONA : How now , my dear Othello ! Your dinner , and the generous islanders By you invited , do attend your presence .
OTHELLO : I am to blame .
DESDEMONA : Why do you speak so faintly ? Are you not well ?
OTHELLO : I have a pain upon my forehead here .
DESDEMONA : ' Faith , that 's with watching ; ' twill away again : Let me but bind it hard , within this hour It will be well .
OTHELLO : Your napkin is too little : He puts the handkerchief from him ; and it drops Let it alone . Come , I 'll go in with you .
DESDEMONA : I am very sorry that you are not well .
EMILIA : I am glad I have found this napkin : This was her first remembrance from the Moor : My wayward husband hath a hundred times Woo 'd me to steal it ; but she so loves the token , For he conjured her she should ever keep it , That she reserves it evermore about her To kiss and talk to . I 'll have the work ta 'en out , And give 't Iago : what he will do with it Heaven knows , not I ; I nothing but to please his fantasy . Re-enter Iago
IAGO : How now ! what do you here alone ?
EMILIA : Do not you chide ; I have a thing for you .
IAGO : A thing for me ? it is a common thing--
EMILIA : Ha !
IAGO : To have a foolish wife .
EMILIA : O , is that all ? What will you give me now For the same handkerchief ?
IAGO : What handkerchief ?
EMILIA : What handkerchief ? Why , that the Moor first gave to Desdemona ; That which so often you did bid me steal .
IAGO : Hast stol 'n it from her ?
EMILIA : No , ' faith ; she let it drop by negligence . And , to the advantage , I , being here , took 't up . Look , here it is .
IAGO : A good wench ; give it me .
EMILIA : What will you do with ' t , that you have been so earnest To have me filch it ?
