IAGO : What , are you hurt , lieutenant ?
CASSIO : Ay , past all surgery .
IAGO : Marry , heaven forbid !
CASSIO : Reputation , reputation , reputation ! O , I have lost my reputation ! I have lost the immortal part of myself , and what remains is bestial . My reputation , Iago , my reputation !
IAGO : As I am an honest man , I thought you had received some bodily wound ; there is more sense in that than in reputation . Reputation is an idle and most false imposition : oft got without merit , and lost without deserving : you have lost no reputation at all , unless you repute yourself such a loser . What , man ! there are ways to recover the general again : you are but now cast in his mood , a punishment more in policy than in malice , even so as one would beat his offenceless dog to affright an imperious lion : sue to him again , and he 's yours .
CASSIO : I will rather sue to be despised than to deceive so good a commander with so slight , so drunken , and so indiscreet an officer . Drunk ? and speak parrot ? and squabble ? swagger ? swear ? and discourse fustian with one 's own shadow ? O thou invisible spirit of wine , if thou hast no name to be known by , let us call thee devil !
IAGO : What was he that you followed with your sword ? What had he done to you ?
CASSIO : I know not .
IAGO : Is 't possible ?
CASSIO : I remember a mass of things , but nothing distinctly ; a quarrel , but nothing wherefore . O God , that men should put an enemy in their mouths to steal away their brains ! that we should , with joy , pleasance revel and applause , transform ourselves into beasts !
IAGO : Why , but you are now well enough : how came you thus recovered ?
CASSIO : It hath pleased the devil drunkenness to give place to the devil wrath ; one unperfectness shows me another , to make me frankly despise myself .
IAGO : Come , you are too severe a moraler : as the time , the place , and the condition of this country stands , I could heartily wish this had not befallen ; but , since it is as it is , mend it for your own good .
CASSIO : I will ask him for my place again ; he shall tell me I am a drunkard ! Had I as many mouths as Hydra , such an answer would stop them all . To be now a sensible man , by and by a fool , and presently a beast ! O strange ! Every inordinate cup is unblessed and the ingredient is a devil .
IAGO : Come , come , good wine is a good familiar creature , if it be well used : exclaim no more against it . And , good lieutenant , I think you think I love you .
CASSIO : I have well approved it , sir . I drunk !
IAGO : You or any man living may be drunk ! at a time , man . I 'll tell you what you shall do . Our general 's wife is now the general : may say so in this respect , for that he hath devoted and given up himself to the contemplation , mark , and denotement of her parts and graces : confess yourself freely to her ; importune her help to put you in your place again : she is of so free , so kind , so apt , so blessed a disposition , she holds it a vice in her goodness not to do more than she is requested : this broken joint between you and her husband entreat her to splinter ; and , my fortunes against any lay worth naming , this crack of your love shall grow stronger than it was before .
CASSIO : You advise me well .
IAGO : I protest , in the sincerity of love and honest kindness .
