DUKE OF VENICE : How say you by this change ?
First Senator : This cannot be , By no assay of reason : ' tis a pageant , To keep us in false gaze . When we consider The importancy of Cyprus to the Turk , And let ourselves again but understand , That as it more concerns the Turk than Rhodes , So may he with more facile question bear it , For that it stands not in such warlike brace , But altogether lacks the abilities That Rhodes is dress 'd in : if we make thought of this , We must not think the Turk is so unskilful To leave that latest which concerns him first , Neglecting an attempt of ease and gain , To wake and wage a danger profitless .
DUKE OF VENICE : Nay , in all confidence , he 's not for Rhodes .
First Officer : Here is more news . Enter a Messenger
Messenger : The Ottomites , reverend and gracious , Steering with due course towards the isle of Rhodes , Have there injointed them with an after fleet .
First Senator : Ay , so I thought . How many , as you guess ?
Messenger : Of thirty sail : and now they do restem Their backward course , bearing with frank appearance Their purposes toward Cyprus . Signior Montano , Your trusty and most valiant servitor , With his free duty recommends you thus , And prays you to believe him .
DUKE OF VENICE : ' Tis certain , then , for Cyprus . Marcus Luccicos , is not he in town ?
First Senator : He 's now in Florence .
DUKE OF VENICE : Write from us to him ; post-post-haste dispatch .
First Senator : Here comes Brabantio and the valiant Moor . Enter BRABANTIO , OTHELLO , IAGO , RODERIGO , and Officers
DUKE OF VENICE : Valiant Othello , we must straight employ you Against the general enemy Ottoman . To BRABANTIO I did not see you ; welcome , gentle signior ; We lack 'd your counsel and your help tonight .
BRABANTIO : So did I yours . Good your grace , pardon me ; Neither my place nor aught I heard of business Hath raised me from my bed , nor doth the general care Take hold on me , for my particular grief Is of so flood-gate and o 'erbearing nature That it engluts and swallows other sorrows And it is still itself .
DUKE OF VENICE : Why , what 's the matter ?
BRABANTIO : My daughter ! O , my daughter !
DUKE OF VENICE Senator : Dead ?
BRABANTIO : Ay , to me ; She is abused , stol 'n from me , and corrupted By spells and medicines bought of mountebanks ; For nature so preposterously to err , Being not deficient , blind , or lame of sense , Sans witchcraft could not .
DUKE OF VENICE : Whoe 'er he be that in this foul proceeding Hath thus beguiled your daughter of herself And you of her , the bloody book of law You shall yourself read in the bitter letter After your own sense , yea , though our proper son Stood in your action .
BRABANTIO : Humbly I thank your grace . Here is the man , this Moor , whom now , it seems , Your special mandate for the state-affairs Hath hither brought .
DUKE OF VENICE Senator : We are very sorry for 't .
DUKE OF VENICE : What , in your own part , can you say to this ?
BRABANTIO : Nothing , but this is so .
