OTHELLO : O , thou art wise ; ' tis certain .
IAGO : Stand you awhile apart ; Confine yourself but in a patient list . Whilst you were here o 'erwhelmed with your grief-- A passion most unsuiting such a man-- Cassio came hither : I shifted him away , And laid good ' scuse upon your ecstasy , Bade him anon return and here speak with me ; The which he promised . Do but encave yourself , And mark the fleers , the gibes , and notable scorns , That dwell in every region of his face ; For I will make him tell the tale anew , Where , how , how oft , how long ago , and when He hath , and is again to cope your wife : I say , but mark his gesture . Marry , patience ; Or I shall say you are all in all in spleen , And nothing of a man .
OTHELLO : Dost thou hear , Iago ? I will be found most cunning in my patience ; But--dost thou hear ? --most bloody .
IAGO : That 's not amiss ; But yet keep time in all . Will you withdraw ? OTHELLO retires Now will I question Cassio of Bianca , A housewife that by selling her desires Buys herself bread and clothes : it is a creature That dotes on Cassio ; as ' tis the strumpet 's plague To beguile many and be beguiled by one : He , when he hears of her , cannot refrain From the excess of laughter . Here he comes : Re-enter CASSIO As he shall smile , Othello shall go mad ; And his unbookish jealousy must construe Poor Cassio 's smiles , gestures and light behavior , Quite in the wrong . How do you now , lieutenant ?
CASSIO : The worser that you give me the addition Whose want even kills me .
IAGO : Ply Desdemona well , and you are sure on 't . Speaking lower Now , if this suit lay in Bianco 's power , How quickly should you speed !
CASSIO : Alas , poor caitiff !
OTHELLO : Look , how he laughs already !
IAGO : I never knew woman love man so .
CASSIO : Alas , poor rogue ! I think , i ' faith , she loves me .
OTHELLO : Now he denies it faintly , and laughs it out .
IAGO : Do you hear , Cassio ?
OTHELLO : Now he importunes him To tell it o 'er : go to ; well said , well said .
IAGO : She gives it out that you shall marry hey : Do you intend it ?
CASSIO : Ha , ha , ha !
OTHELLO : Do you triumph , Roman ? do you triumph ?
CASSIO : I marry her ! what ? a customer ! Prithee , bear some charity to my wit : do not think it so unwholesome . Ha , ha , ha !
OTHELLO : So , so , so , so : they laugh that win .
IAGO : ' Faith , the cry goes that you shall marry her .
CASSIO : Prithee , say true .
IAGO : I am a very villain else .
OTHELLO : Have you scored me ? Well .
CASSIO : This is the monkey 's own giving out : she is persuaded I will marry her , out of her own love and flattery , not out of my promise .
OTHELLO : Iago beckons me ; now he begins the story .
CASSIO : She was here even now ; she haunts me in every place . I was the other day talking on the sea-bank with certain Venetians ; and thither comes the bauble , and , by this hand , she falls me thus about my neck--
OTHELLO : Crying ' O dear Cassio ! ' as it were : his gesture imports it .
CASSIO : So hangs , and lolls , and weeps upon me ; so hales , and pulls me : ha , ha , ha !
OTHELLO : Now he tells how she plucked him to my chamber . O , I see that nose of yours , but not that dog I shall throw it to .
CASSIO : Well , I must leave her company .
IAGO : Before me ! look , where she comes .
