EMILIA : It 's the wind .
DESDEMONA : I call 'd my love false love ; but what said he then ? Sing willow , willow , willow : If I court moe women , you 'll couch with moe men ! So , get thee gone ; good night Ate eyes do itch ; Doth that bode weeping ?
EMILIA : ' Tis neither here nor there .
DESDEMONA : I have heard it said so . O , these men , these men ! Dost thou in conscience think , --tell me , Emilia , -- That there be women do abuse their husbands In such gross kind ?
EMILIA : There be some such , no question .
DESDEMONA : Wouldst thou do such a deed for all the world ?
EMILIA : Why , would not you ?
DESDEMONA : No , by this heavenly light !
EMILIA : Nor I neither by this heavenly light ; I might do 't as well i ' the dark .
DESDEMONA : Wouldst thou do such a deed for all the world ?
EMILIA : The world 's a huge thing : it is a great price . For a small vice .
DESDEMONA : In troth , I think thou wouldst not .
EMILIA : In troth , I think I should ; and undo 't when I had done . Marry , I would not do such a thing for a joint-ring , nor for measures of lawn , nor for gowns , petticoats , nor caps , nor any petty exhibition ; but for the whole world , --why , who would not make her husband a cuckold to make him a monarch ? I should venture purgatory for 't .
DESDEMONA : Beshrew me , if I would do such a wrong For the whole world .
EMILIA : Why the wrong is but a wrong i ' the world : and having the world for your labour , tis a wrong in your own world , and you might quickly make it right .
DESDEMONA : I do not think there is any such woman .
EMILIA : Yes , a dozen ; and as many to the vantage as would store the world they played for . But I do think it is their husbands ' faults If wives do fall : say that they slack their duties , And pour our treasures into foreign laps , Or else break out in peevish jealousies , Throwing restraint upon us ; or say they strike us , Or scant our former having in despite ; Why , we have galls , and though we have some grace , Yet have we some revenge . Let husbands know Their wives have sense like them : they see and smell And have their palates both for sweet and sour , As husbands have . What is it that they do When they change us for others ? Is it sport ? I think it is : and doth affection breed it ? I think it doth : is 't frailty that thus errs ? It is so too : and have not we affections , Desires for sport , and frailty , as men have ? Then let them use us well : else let them know , The ills we do , their ills instruct us so .
DESDEMONA : Good night , good night : heaven me such uses send , Not to pick bad from bad , but by bad mend ! Enter IAGO and RODERIGO
IAGO : Here , stand behind this bulk ; straight will he come : Wear thy good rapier bare , and put it home : Quick , quick ; fear nothing ; I 'll be at thy elbow : It makes us , or it mars us ; think on that , And fix most firm thy resolution .
RODERIGO : Be near at hand ; I may miscarry in 't .
IAGO : Here , at thy hand : be bold , and take thy stand . Retires
RODERIGO : I have no great devotion to the deed ; And yet he hath given me satisfying reasons : ' Tis but a man gone . Forth , my sword : he dies .
