IAGO : You are in the right . Good night , lieutenant ; I must to the watch . CASSIO : Good night , honest Iago . Exit
IAGO : And what 's he then that says I play the villain ? When this advice is free I give and honest , Probal to thinking and indeed the course To win the Moor again ? For ' tis most easy The inclining Desdemona to subdue In any honest suit : she 's framed as fruitful As the free elements . And then for her To win the Moor--were 't to renounce his baptism , All seals and symbols of redeemed sin , His soul is so enfetter 'd to her love , That she may make , unmake , do what she list , Even as her appetite shall play the god With his weak function . How am I then a villain To counsel Cassio to this parallel course , Directly to his good ? Divinity of hell ! When devils will the blackest sins put on , They do suggest at first with heavenly shows , As I do now : for whiles this honest fool Plies Desdemona to repair his fortunes And she for him pleads strongly to the Moor , I 'll pour this pestilence into his ear , That she repeals him for her body 's lust ; And by how much she strives to do him good , She shall undo her credit with the Moor . So will I turn her virtue into pitch , And out of her own goodness make the net That shall enmesh them all . Re-enter RODERIGO How now , Roderigo !
RODERIGO : I do follow here in the chase , not like a hound that hunts , but one that fills up the cry . My money is almost spent ; I have been to-night exceedingly well cudgelled ; and I think the issue will be , I shall have so much experience for my pains , and so , with no money at all and a little more wit , return again to Venice .
IAGO : How poor are they that have not patience ! What wound did ever heal but by degrees ? Thou know 'st we work by wit , and not by witchcraft ; And wit depends on dilatory time . Does 't not go well ? Cassio hath beaten thee . And thou , by that small hurt , hast cashier 'd Cassio : Though other things grow fair against the sun , Yet fruits that blossom first will first be ripe : Content thyself awhile . By the mass , ' tis morning ; Pleasure and action make the hours seem short . Retire thee ; go where thou art billeted : Away , I say ; thou shalt know more hereafter : Nay , get thee gone . Exit RODERIGO Two things are to be done : My wife must move for Cassio to her mistress ; I 'll set her on ; Myself the while to draw the Moor apart , And bring him jump when he may Cassio find Soliciting his wife : ay , that 's the way Dull not device by coldness and delay . Exit Enter CASSIO and some Musicians
CASSIO : Masters , play here ; I will content your pains ; Something that 's brief ; and bid ' Good morrow , general . ' Music Enter Clown
Clown : Why masters , have your instruments been in Naples , that they speak i ' the nose thus ?
First Musician : How , sir , how !
Clown : Are these , I pray you , wind-instruments ?
First Musician : Ay , marry , are they , sir .
Clown : O , thereby hangs a tail .
First Musician : Whereby hangs a tale , sir ?
Clown : Marry. sir , by many a wind-instrument that I know . But , masters , here 's money for you : and the general so likes your music , that he desires you , for love 's sake , to make no more noise with it .
First Musician : Well , sir , we will not .
Clown : If you have any music that may not be heard , to 't again : but , as they say to hear music the general does not greatly care .
First Musician : We have none such , sir .
