IAGO : Is my lord angry ?
EMILIA : He went hence but now , And certainly in strange unquietness .
IAGO : Can he be angry ? I have seen the cannon , When it hath blown his ranks into the air , And , like the devil , from his very arm Puff 'd his own brother : --and can he be angry ? Something of moment then : I will go meet him : There 's matter in 't indeed , if he be angry .
DESDEMONA : I prithee , do so . Exit IAGO Something , sure , of state , Either from Venice , or some unhatch 'd practise Made demonstrable here in Cyprus to him , Hath puddled his clear spirit : and in such cases Men 's natures wrangle with inferior things , Though great ones are their object . ' Tis even so ; For let our finger ache , and it indues Our other healthful members even to that sense Of pain : nay , we must think men are not gods , Nor of them look for such observances As fit the bridal . Beshrew me much , Emilia , I was , unhandsome warrior as I am , Arraigning his unkindness with my soul ; But now I find I had suborn 'd the witness , And he 's indicted falsely .
EMILIA : Pray heaven it be state-matters , as you think , And no conception nor no jealous toy Concerning you .
DESDEMONA : Alas the day ! I never gave him cause .
EMILIA : But jealous souls will not be answer 'd so ; They are not ever jealous for the cause , But jealous for they are jealous : ' tis a monster Begot upon itself , born on itself .
DESDEMONA : Heaven keep that monster from Othello 's mind !
EMILIA : Lady , amen .
DESDEMONA : I will go seek him . Cassio , walk hereabout : If I do find him fit , I 'll move your suit And seek to effect it to my uttermost .
CASSIO : I humbly thank your ladyship . Enter BIANCA
BIANCA : Save you , friend Cassio !
CASSIO : What make you from home ? How is it with you , my most fair Bianca ? I ' faith , sweet love , I was coming to your house .
BIANCA : And I was going to your lodging , Cassio . What , keep a week away ? seven days and nights ? Eight score eight hours ? and lovers ' absent hours , More tedious than the dial eight score times ? O weary reckoning !
CASSIO : Pardon me , Bianca : I have this while with leaden thoughts been press 'd : But I shall , in a more continuate time , Strike off this score of absence . Sweet Bianca , Giving her DESDEMONA 's handkerchief Take me this work out .
BIANCA : O Cassio , whence came this ? This is some token from a newer friend : To the felt absence now I feel a cause : Is 't come to this ? Well , well .
CASSIO : Go to , woman ! Throw your vile guesses in the devil 's teeth , From whence you have them . You are jealous now That this is from some mistress , some remembrance : No , in good troth , Bianca .
BIANCA : Why , whose is it ?
CASSIO : I know not , sweet : I found it in my chamber . I like the work well : ere it be demanded-- As like enough it will--I 'ld have it copied : Take it , and do 't ; and leave me for this time .
BIANCA : Leave you ! wherefore ?
CASSIO : I do attend here on the general ; And think it no addition , nor my wish , To have him see me woman 'd .
BIANCA : Why , I pray you ?
CASSIO : Not that I love you not .
BIANCA : But that you do not love me . I pray you , bring me on the way a little , And say if I shall see you soon at night .
CASSIO : ' Tis but a little way that I can bring you ; For I attend here : but I 'll see you soon .
