DESDEMONA : O , fie upon thee , slanderer !
IAGO : Nay , it is true , or else I am a Turk : You rise to play and go to bed to work .
EMILIA : You shall not write my praise .
IAGO : No , let me not .
DESDEMONA : What wouldst thou write of me , if thou shouldst praise me ?
IAGO : O gentle lady , do not put me to 't ; For I am nothing , if not critical .
DESDEMONA : Come on assay . There 's one gone to the harbour ?
IAGO : Ay , madam .
DESDEMONA : I am not merry ; but I do beguile The thing I am , by seeming otherwise . Come , how wouldst thou praise me ?
IAGO : I am about it ; but indeed my invention Comes from my pate as birdlime does from frize ; It plucks out brains and all : but my Muse labours , And thus she is deliver 'd . If she be fair and wise , fairness and wit , The one 's for use , the other useth it .
DESDEMONA : Well praised ! How if she be black and witty ?
IAGO : If she be black , and thereto have a wit , She 'll find a white that shall her blackness fit .
DESDEMONA : Worse and worse .
EMILIA : How if fair and foolish ?
IAGO : She never yet was foolish that was fair ; For even her folly help 'd her to an heir .
DESDEMONA : These are old fond paradoxes to make fools laugh i ' the alehouse . What miserable praise hast thou for her that 's foul and foolish ?
IAGO : There 's none so foul and foolish thereunto , But does foul pranks which fair and wise ones do .
DESDEMONA : O heavy ignorance ! thou praisest the worst best . But what praise couldst thou bestow on a deserving woman indeed , one that , in the authority of her merit , did justly put on the vouch of very malice itself ?
IAGO : She that was ever fair and never proud , Had tongue at will and yet was never loud , Never lack 'd gold and yet went never gay , Fled from her wish and yet said ' Now I may , ' She that being anger 'd , her revenge being nigh , Bade her wrong stay and her displeasure fly , She that in wisdom never was so frail To change the cod 's head for the salmon 's tail ; She that could think and ne 'er disclose her mind , See suitors following and not look behind , She was a wight , if ever such wight were , --
DESDEMONA : To do what ?
IAGO : To suckle fools and chronicle small beer .
DESDEMONA : O most lame and impotent conclusion ! Do not learn of him , Emilia , though he be thy husband . How say you , Cassio ? is he not a most profane and liberal counsellor ?
CASSIO : He speaks home , madam : You may relish him more in the soldier than in the scholar .
IAGO : He takes her by the palm : ay , well said , whisper : with as little a web as this will I ensnare as great a fly as Cassio . Ay , smile upon her , do ; I will gyve thee in thine own courtship . You say true ; ' tis so , indeed : if such tricks as these strip you out of your lieutenantry , it had been better you had not kissed your three fingers so oft , which now again you are most apt to play the sir in . Very good ; well kissed ! an excellent courtesy ! ' tis so , indeed . Yet again your fingers to your lips ? would they were clyster-pipes for your sake ! Trumpet within The Moor ! I know his trumpet .
CASSIO : ' Tis truly so .
DESDEMONA : Let 's meet him and receive him .
CASSIO : Lo , where he comes ! Enter OTHELLO and Attendants
OTHELLO : O my fair warrior !
DESDEMONA : My dear Othello !
