SEBASTIAN : I am not weary , and ' tis long to night : I pray you , let us satisfy our eyes With the memorials and the things of fame That do renown this city .
ANTONIO : Would you 'ld pardon me ; I do not without danger walk these streets : Once , in a sea-fight , ' gainst the count his galleys I did some service ; of such note indeed , That were I ta 'en here it would scarce be answer 'd .
SEBASTIAN : Belike you slew great number of his people .
ANTONIO : The offence is not of such a bloody nature ; Albeit the quality of the time and quarrel Might well have given us bloody argument . It might have since been answer 'd in repaying What we took from them ; which , for traffic 's sake , Most of our city did : only myself stood out ; For which , if I be lapsed in this place , I shall pay dear .
SEBASTIAN : Do not then walk too open .
ANTONIO : It doth not fit me . Hold , sir , here 's my purse . In the south suburbs , at the Elephant , Is best to lodge : I will bespeak our diet , Whiles you beguile the time and feed your knowledge With viewing of the town : there shall you have me .
SEBASTIAN : Why I your purse ?
ANTONIO : Haply your eye shall light upon some toy You have desire to purchase ; and your store , I think , is not for idle markets , sir .
SEBASTIAN : I 'll be your purse-bearer and leave you For an hour .
ANTONIO : To the Elephant .
SEBASTIAN : I do remember . Enter OLIVIA and MARIA
OLIVIA : I have sent after him : he says he 'll come ; How shall I feast him ? what bestow of him ? For youth is bought more oft than begg 'd or borrow 'd . I speak too loud . Where is Malvolio ? he is sad and civil , And suits well for a servant with my fortunes : Where is Malvolio ?
MARIA : He 's coming , madam ; but in very strange manner . He is , sure , possessed , madam .
OLIVIA : Why , what 's the matter ? does he rave ?
MARIA : No. madam , he does nothing but smile : your ladyship were best to have some guard about you , if he come ; for , sure , the man is tainted in 's wits .
OLIVIA : Go call him hither . Exit MARIA I am as mad as he , If sad and merry madness equal be . Re-enter MARIA , with MALVOLIO How now , Malvolio !
MALVOLIO : Sweet lady , ho , ho .
OLIVIA : Smilest thou ? I sent for thee upon a sad occasion .
MALVOLIO : Sad , lady ! I could be sad : this does make some obstruction in the blood , this cross-gartering ; but what of that ? if it please the eye of one , it is with me as the very true sonnet is , ' Please one , and please all . ' 
OLIVIA : Why , how dost thou , man ? what is the matter with thee ?
MALVOLIO : Not black in my mind , though yellow in my legs . It did come to his hands , and commands shall be executed : I think we do know the sweet Roman hand .
OLIVIA : Wilt thou go to bed , Malvolio ?
MALVOLIO : To bed ! ay , sweet-heart , and I 'll come to thee .
OLIVIA : God comfort thee ! Why dost thou smile so and kiss thy hand so oft ?
MARIA : How do you , Malvolio ?
MALVOLIO : At your request ! yes ; nightingales answer daws .
MARIA : Why appear you with this ridiculous boldness before my lady ?
MALVOLIO : ' Be not afraid of greatness : ' ' twas well writ .
OLIVIA : What meanest thou by that , Malvolio ?
MALVOLIO : ' Some are born great , ' --
OLIVIA : Ha !
MALVOLIO : ' Some achieve greatness , ' --
OLIVIA : What sayest thou ?
MALVOLIO : ' And some have greatness thrust upon them . ' 
