Second Officer : Come , sir , away .
ANTONIO : I must entreat of you some of that money .
VIOLA : What money , sir ? For the fair kindness you have show 'd me here , And , part , being prompted by your present trouble , Out of my lean and low ability I 'll lend you something : my having is not much ; I 'll make division of my present with you : Hold , there 's half my coffer .
ANTONIO : Will you deny me now ? Is 't possible that my deserts to you Can lack persuasion ? Do not tempt my misery , Lest that it make me so unsound a man As to upbraid you with those kindnesses That I have done for you .
VIOLA : I know of none ; Nor know I you by voice or any feature : I hate ingratitude more in a man Than lying , vainness , babbling , drunkenness , Or any taint of vice whose strong corruption Inhabits our frail blood .
ANTONIO : O heavens themselves !
Second Officer : Come , sir , I pray you , go .
ANTONIO : Let me speak a little . This youth that you see here I snatch 'd one half out of the jaws of death , Relieved him with such sanctity of love , And to his image , which methought did promise Most venerable worth , did I devotion .
First Officer : What 's that to us ? The time goes by : away !
ANTONIO : But O how vile an idol proves this god Thou hast , Sebastian , done good feature shame . In nature there 's no blemish but the mind ; None can be call 'd deform 'd but the unkind : Virtue is beauty , but the beauteous evil Are empty trunks o 'erflourish 'd by the devil .
First Officer : The man grows mad : away with him ! Come , come , sir .
ANTONIO : Lead me on . Exit with Officers
VIOLA : Methinks his words do from such passion fly , That he believes himself : so do not I. Prove true , imagination , O , prove true , That I , dear brother , be now ta 'en for you !
SIR TOBY BELCH : Come hither , knight ; come hither , Fabian : we 'll whisper o 'er a couplet or two of most sage saws .
VIOLA : He named Sebastian : I my brother know Yet living in my glass ; even such and so In favour was my brother , and he went Still in this fashion , colour , ornament , For him I imitate : O , if it prove , Tempests are kind and salt waves fresh in love . Exit
SIR TOBY BELCH : A very dishonest paltry boy , and more a coward than a hare : his dishonesty appears in leaving his friend here in necessity and denying him ; and for his cowardship , ask Fabian .
FABIAN : A coward , a most devout coward , religious in it .
SIR ANDREW : ' Slid , I 'll after him again and beat him .
SIR TOBY BELCH : Do ; cuff him soundly , but never draw thy sword .
SIR ANDREW : An I do not , --
FABIAN : Come , let 's see the event .
SIR TOBY BELCH : I dare lay any money ' twill be nothing yet . Enter SEBASTIAN and Clown
Clown : Will you make me believe that I am not sent for you ?
SEBASTIAN : Go to , go to , thou art a foolish fellow : Let me be clear of thee .
Clown : Well held out , i ' faith ! No , I do not know you ; nor I am not sent to you by my lady , to bid you come speak with her ; nor your name is not Master Cesario ; nor this is not my nose neither . Nothing that is so is so .
SEBASTIAN : I prithee , vent thy folly somewhere else : Thou know 'st not me .
