VIOLA : I pity you .
OLIVIA : That 's a degree to love .
VIOLA : No , not a grize ; for ' tis a vulgar proof , That very oft we pity enemies .
OLIVIA : Why , then , methinks ' tis time to smile again . O , world , how apt the poor are to be proud ! If one should be a prey , how much the better To fall before the lion than the wolf ! Clock strikes The clock upbraids me with the waste of time . Be not afraid , good youth , I will not have you : And yet , when wit and youth is come to harvest , Your were is alike to reap a proper man : There lies your way , due west .
VIOLA : Then westward-ho ! Grace and good disposition Attend your ladyship ! You 'll nothing , madam , to my lord by me ?
OLIVIA : Stay : I prithee , tell me what thou thinkest of me .
VIOLA : That you do think you are not what you are .
OLIVIA : If I think so , I think the same of you .
VIOLA : Then think you right : I am not what I am .
OLIVIA : I would you were as I would have you be !
VIOLA : Would it be better , madam , than I am ? I wish it might , for now I am your fool .
OLIVIA : O , what a deal of scorn looks beautiful In the contempt and anger of his lip ! A murderous guilt shows not itself more soon Than love that would seem hid : love 's night is noon . Cesario , by the roses of the spring , By maidhood , honour , truth and every thing , I love thee so , that , maugre all thy pride , Nor wit nor reason can my passion hide . Do not extort thy reasons from this clause , For that I woo , thou therefore hast no cause , But rather reason thus with reason fetter , Love sought is good , but given unsought better .
VIOLA : By innocence I swear , and by my youth I have one heart , one bosom and one truth , And that no woman has ; nor never none Shall mistress be of it , save I alone . And so adieu , good madam : never more Will I my master 's tears to you deplore .
OLIVIA : Yet come again ; for thou perhaps mayst move That heart , which now abhors , to like his love . Enter SIR TOBY BELCH , SIR ANDREW , and FABIAN
SIR ANDREW : No , faith , I 'll not stay a jot longer .
SIR TOBY BELCH : Thy reason , dear venom , give thy reason .
FABIAN : You must needs yield your reason , Sir Andrew .
SIR ANDREW : Marry , I saw your niece do more favours to the count 's serving-man than ever she bestowed upon me ; I saw 't i ' the orchard .
SIR TOBY BELCH : Did she see thee the while , old boy ? tell me that .
SIR ANDREW : As plain as I see you now .
FABIAN : This was a great argument of love in her toward you .
SIR ANDREW : ' Slight , will you make an ass o ' me ?
FABIAN : I will prove it legitimate , sir , upon the oaths of judgment and reason .
SIR TOBY BELCH : And they have been grand-jury-men since before Noah was a sailor .
FABIAN : She did show favour to the youth in your sight only to exasperate you , to awake your dormouse valour , to put fire in your heart and brimstone in your liver . You should then have accosted her ; and with some excellent jests , fire-new from the mint , you should have banged the youth into dumbness . This was looked for at your hand , and this was balked : the double gilt of this opportunity you let time wash off , and you are now sailed into the north of my lady 's opinion ; where you will hang like an icicle on a Dutchman 's beard , unless you do redeem it by some laudable attempt either of valour or policy .
