ANTONIO : Alas the day !
SEBASTIAN : A lady , sir , though it was said she much resembled me , was yet of many accounted beautiful : but , though I could not with such estimable wonder overfar believe that , yet thus far I will boldly publish her ; she bore a mind that envy could not but call fair . She is drowned already , sir , with salt water , though I seem to drown her remembrance again with more .
ANTONIO : Pardon me , sir , your bad entertainment .
SEBASTIAN : O good Antonio , forgive me your trouble .
ANTONIO : If you will not murder me for my love , let me be your servant .
SEBASTIAN : If you will not undo what you have done , that is , kill him whom you have recovered , desire it not . Fare ye well at once : my bosom is full of kindness , and I am yet so near the manners of my mother , that upon the least occasion more mine eyes will tell tales of me . I am bound to the Count Orsino 's court : farewell . Exit
ANTONIO : The gentleness of all the gods go with thee ! I have many enemies in Orsino 's court , Else would I very shortly see thee there . But , come what may , I do adore thee so , That danger shall seem sport , and I will go . Exit Enter VIOLA , MALVOLIO following
MALVOLIO : Were not you even now with the Countess Olivia ?
VIOLA : Even now , sir ; on a moderate pace I have since arrived but hither .
MALVOLIO : She returns this ring to you , sir : you might have saved me my pains , to have taken it away yourself . She adds , moreover , that you should put your lord into a desperate assurance she will none of him : and one thing more , that you be never so hardy to come again in his affairs , unless it be to report your lord 's taking of this . Receive it so .
VIOLA : She took the ring of me : I 'll none of it .
MALVOLIO : Come , sir , you peevishly threw it to her ; and her will is , it should be so returned : if it be worth stooping for , there it lies in your eye ; if not , be it his that finds it . Exit
VIOLA : I left no ring with her : what means this lady ? Fortune forbid my outside have not charm 'd her ! She made good view of me ; indeed , so much , That sure methought her eyes had lost her tongue , For she did speak in starts distractedly . She loves me , sure ; the cunning of her passion Invites me in this churlish messenger . None of my lord 's ring ! why , he sent her none . I am the man : if it be so , as ' tis , Poor lady , she were better love a dream . Disguise , I see , thou art a wickedness , Wherein the pregnant enemy does much . How easy is it for the proper-false In women 's waxen hearts to set their forms ! Alas , our frailty is the cause , not we ! For such as we are made of , such we be . How will this fadge ? my master loves her dearly ; And I , poor monster , fond as much on him ; And she , mistaken , seems to dote on me . What will become of this ? As I am man , My state is desperate for my master 's love ; As I am woman , --now alas the day ! -- What thriftless sighs shall poor Olivia breathe ! O time ! thou must untangle this , not I ; It is too hard a knot for me to untie ! Exit Enter SIR TOBY BELCH and SIR ANDREW
SIR TOBY BELCH : Approach , Sir Andrew : not to be abed after midnight is to be up betimes ; and ' diluculo surgere , ' thou know 'st , --
SIR ANDREW : Nay , my troth , I know not : but I know , to be up late is to be up late .
