VIOLA : O that I served that lady And might not be delivered to the world , Till I had made mine own occasion mellow , What my estate is !
Captain : That were hard to compass ; Because she will admit no kind of suit , No , not the duke 's .
VIOLA : There is a fair behavior in thee , captain ; And though that nature with a beauteous wall Doth oft close in pollution , yet of thee I will believe thou hast a mind that suits With this thy fair and outward character . I prithee , and I 'll pay thee bounteously , Conceal me what I am , and be my aid For such disguise as haply shall become The form of my intent . I 'll serve this duke : Thou shall present me as an eunuch to him : It may be worth thy pains ; for I can sing And speak to him in many sorts of music That will allow me very worth his service . What else may hap to time I will commit ; Only shape thou thy silence to my wit .
Captain : Be you his eunuch , and your mute I 'll be : When my tongue blabs , then let mine eyes not see .
VIOLA : I thank thee : lead me on . Enter SIR TOBY BELCH and MARIA
SIR TOBY BELCH : What a plague means my niece , to take the death of her brother thus ? I am sure care 's an enemy to life .
MARIA : By my troth , Sir Toby , you must come in earlier o ' nights : your cousin , my lady , takes great exceptions to your ill hours .
SIR TOBY BELCH : Why , let her except , before excepted .
MARIA : Ay , but you must confine yourself within the modest limits of order .
SIR TOBY BELCH : Confine ! I 'll confine myself no finer than I am : these clothes are good enough to drink in ; and so be these boots too : an they be not , let them hang themselves in their own straps .
MARIA : That quaffing and drinking will undo you : I heard my lady talk of it yesterday ; and of a foolish knight that you brought in one night here to be her wooer .
SIR TOBY BELCH : Who , Sir Andrew Aguecheek ?
MARIA : Ay , he .
SIR TOBY BELCH : He 's as tall a man as any 's in Illyria .
MARIA : What 's that to the purpose ?
SIR TOBY BELCH : Why , he has three thousand ducats a year .
MARIA : Ay , but he 'll have but a year in all these ducats : he 's a very fool and a prodigal .
SIR TOBY BELCH : Fie , that you 'll say so ! he plays o ' the viol-de-gamboys , and speaks three or four languages word for word without book , and hath all the good gifts of nature .
MARIA : He hath indeed , almost natural : for besides that he 's a fool , he 's a great quarreller : and but that he hath the gift of a coward to allay the gust he hath in quarrelling , ' tis thought among the prudent he would quickly have the gift of a grave .
SIR TOBY BELCH : By this hand , they are scoundrels and subtractors that say so of him . Who are they ?
MARIA : They that add , moreover , he 's drunk nightly in your company .
SIR TOBY BELCH : With drinking healths to my niece : I 'll drink to her as long as there is a passage in my throat and drink in Illyria : he 's a coward and a coystrill that will not drink to my niece till his brains turn o ' the toe like a parish-top . What , wench ! Castiliano vulgo ! for here comes Sir Andrew Agueface . Enter SIR ANDREW
SIR ANDREW : Sir Toby Belch ! how now , Sir Toby Belch !
SIR TOBY BELCH : Sweet Sir Andrew !
SIR ANDREW : Bless you , fair shrew .
MARIA : And you too , sir .
SIR TOBY BELCH : Accost , Sir Andrew , accost .
SIR ANDREW : What 's that ?
