SIR ANDREW : Ay , ' tis strong , and it does indifferent well in a flame-coloured stock . Shall we set about some revels ?
SIR TOBY BELCH : What shall we do else ? were we not born under Taurus ?
SIR ANDREW : Taurus ! That 's sides and heart .
SIR TOBY BELCH : No , sir ; it is legs and thighs . Let me see the caper ; ha ! higher : ha , ha ! excellent ! Enter VALENTINE and VIOLA in man 's attire
VALENTINE : If the duke continue these favours towards you , Cesario , you are like to be much advanced : he hath known you but three days , and already you are no stranger .
VIOLA : You either fear his humour or my negligence , that you call in question the continuance of his love : is he inconstant , sir , in his favours ?
VALENTINE : No , believe me .
VIOLA : I thank you . Here comes the count . Enter DUKE ORSINO , CURIO , and Attendants
DUKE ORSINO : Who saw Cesario , ho ?
VIOLA : On your attendance , my lord ; here .
DUKE ORSINO : Stand you a while aloof , Cesario , Thou know 'st no less but all ; I have unclasp 'd To thee the book even of my secret soul : Therefore , good youth , address thy gait unto her ; Be not denied access , stand at her doors , And tell them , there thy fixed foot shall grow Till thou have audience .
VIOLA : Sure , my noble lord , If she be so abandon 'd to her sorrow As it is spoke , she never will admit me .
DUKE ORSINO : Be clamorous and leap all civil bounds Rather than make unprofited return .
VIOLA : Say I do speak with her , my lord , what then ?
DUKE ORSINO : O , then unfold the passion of my love , Surprise her with discourse of my dear faith : It shall become thee well to act my woes ; She will attend it better in thy youth Than in a nuncio 's of more grave aspect .
VIOLA : I think not so , my lord .
DUKE ORSINO : Dear lad , believe it ; For they shall yet belie thy happy years , That say thou art a man : Diana 's lip Is not more smooth and rubious ; thy small pipe Is as the maiden 's organ , shrill and sound , And all is semblative a woman 's part . I know thy constellation is right apt For this affair . Some four or five attend him ; All , if you will ; for I myself am best When least in company . Prosper well in this , And thou shalt live as freely as thy lord , To call his fortunes thine .
VIOLA : I 'll do my best To woo your lady : Aside yet , a barful strife ! Whoe 'er I woo , myself would be his wife . Enter MARIA and Clown
MARIA : Nay , either tell me where thou hast been , or I will not open my lips so wide as a bristle may enter in way of thy excuse : my lady will hang thee for thy absence .
Clown : Let her hang me : he that is well hanged in this world needs to fear no colours .
MARIA : Make that good .
Clown : He shall see none to fear .
MARIA : A good lenten answer : I can tell thee where that saying was born , of ' I fear no colours . ' 
Clown : Where , good Mistress Mary ?
MARIA : In the wars ; and that may you be bold to say in your foolery .
Clown : Well , God give them wisdom that have it ; and those that are fools , let them use their talents .
MARIA : Yet you will be hanged for being so long absent ; or , to be turned away , is not that as good as a hanging to you ?
Clown : Many a good hanging prevents a bad marriage ; and , for turning away , let summer bear it out .
MARIA : You are resolute , then ?
