FABIAN : Here he comes with your niece : give them way till he take leave , and presently after him .
SIR TOBY BELCH : I will meditate the while upon some horrid message for a challenge .
OLIVIA : I have said too much unto a heart of stone And laid mine honour too unchary out : There 's something in me that reproves my fault ; But such a headstrong potent fault it is , That it but mocks reproof .
VIOLA : With the same ' havior that your passion bears Goes on my master 's grief .
OLIVIA : Here , wear this jewel for me , ' tis my picture ; Refuse it not ; it hath no tongue to vex you ; And I beseech you come again to-morrow . What shall you ask of me that I 'll deny , That honour saved may upon asking give ?
VIOLA : Nothing but this ; your true love for my master .
OLIVIA : How with mine honour may I give him that Which I have given to you ?
VIOLA : I will acquit you .
OLIVIA : Well , come again to-morrow : fare thee well : A fiend like thee might bear my soul to hell . Exit Re-enter SIR TOBY BELCH and FABIAN
SIR TOBY BELCH : Gentleman , God save thee .
VIOLA : And you , sir .
SIR TOBY BELCH : That defence thou hast , betake thee to 't : of what nature the wrongs are thou hast done him , I know not ; but thy intercepter , full of despite , bloody as the hunter , attends thee at the orchard-end : dismount thy tuck , be yare in thy preparation , for thy assailant is quick , skilful and deadly .
VIOLA : You mistake , sir ; I am sure no man hath any quarrel to me : my remembrance is very free and clear from any image of offence done to any man .
SIR TOBY BELCH : You 'll find it otherwise , I assure you : therefore , if you hold your life at any price , betake you to your guard ; for your opposite hath in him what youth , strength , skill and wrath can furnish man withal .
VIOLA : I pray you , sir , what is he ?
SIR TOBY BELCH : He is knight , dubbed with unhatched rapier and on carpet consideration ; but he is a devil in private brawl : souls and bodies hath he divorced three ; and his incensement at this moment is so implacable , that satisfaction can be none but by pangs of death and sepulchre . Hob , nob , is his word ; give 't or take 't .
VIOLA : I will return again into the house and desire some conduct of the lady . I am no fighter . I have heard of some kind of men that put quarrels purposely on others , to taste their valour : belike this is a man of that quirk .
SIR TOBY BELCH : Sir , no ; his indignation derives itself out of a very competent injury : therefore , get you on and give him his desire . Back you shall not to the house , unless you undertake that with me which with as much safety you might answer him : therefore , on , or strip your sword stark naked ; for meddle you must , that 's certain , or forswear to wear iron about you .
VIOLA : This is as uncivil as strange . I beseech you , do me this courteous office , as to know of the knight what my offence to him is : it is something of my negligence , nothing of my purpose .
SIR TOBY BELCH : I will do so . Signior Fabian , stay you by this gentleman till my return . Exit
VIOLA : Pray you , sir , do you know of this matter ?
FABIAN : I know the knight is incensed against you , even to a mortal arbitrement ; but nothing of the circumstance more .
VIOLA : I beseech you , what manner of man is he ?
