MALVOLIO : ' Remember who commended thy yellow stocking s , ' --
OLIVIA : Thy yellow stockings !
MALVOLIO : ' And wished to see thee cross-gartered . ' 
OLIVIA : Cross-gartered !
MALVOLIO : ' Go to thou art made , if thou desirest to be so ; ' --
OLIVIA : Am I made ?
MALVOLIO : ' If not , let me see thee a servant still . ' 
OLIVIA : Why , this is very midsummer madness . Enter Servant
Servant : Madam , the young gentleman of the Count Orsino 's is returned : I could hardly entreat him back : he attends your ladyship 's pleasure .
OLIVIA : I 'll come to him . Exit Servant Good Maria , let this fellow be looked to . Where 's my cousin Toby ? Let some of my people have a special care of him : I would not have him miscarry for the half of my dowry .
MALVOLIO : O , ho ! do you come near me now ? no worse man than Sir Toby to look to me ! This concurs directly with the letter : she sends him on purpose , that I may appear stubborn to him ; for she incites me to that in the letter . ' Cast thy humble slough , ' says she ; ' be opposite with a kinsman , surly with servants ; let thy tongue tang with arguments of state ; put thyself into the trick of singularity ; ' and consequently sets down the manner how ; as , a sad face , a reverend carriage , a slow tongue , in the habit of some sir of note , and so forth . I have limed her ; but it is Jove 's doing , and Jove make me thankful ! And when she went away now , ' Let this fellow be looked to : ' fellow ! not Malvolio , nor after my degree , but fellow . Why , every thing adheres together , that no dram of a scruple , no scruple of a scruple , no obstacle , no incredulous or unsafe circumstance--What can be said ? Nothing that can be can come between me and the full prospect of my hopes . Well , Jove , not I , is the doer of this , and he is to be thanked . Re-enter MARIA , with SIR TOBY BELCH and FABIAN
SIR TOBY BELCH : Which way is he , in the name of sanctity ? If all the devils of hell be drawn in little , and Legion himself possessed him , yet I 'll speak to him .
FABIAN : Here he is , here he is . How is 't with you , sir ? how is 't with you , man ?
MALVOLIO : Go off ; I discard you : let me enjoy my private : go off .
MARIA : Lo , how hollow the fiend speaks within him ! did not I tell you ? Sir Toby , my lady prays you to have a care of him .
MALVOLIO : Ah , ha ! does she so ?
SIR TOBY BELCH : Go to , go to ; peace , peace ; we must deal gently with him : let me alone . How do you , Malvolio ? how is 't with you ? What , man ! defy the devil : consider , he 's an enemy to mankind .
MALVOLIO : Do you know what you say ?
MARIA : La you , an you speak ill of the devil , how he takes it at heart ! Pray God , he be not bewitched !
FABIAN : Carry his water to the wise woman .
MARIA : Marry , and it shall be done to-morrow morning , if I live . My lady would not lose him for more than I 'll say .
MALVOLIO : How now , mistress !
MARIA : O Lord !
SIR TOBY BELCH : Prithee , hold thy peace ; this is not the way : do you not see you move him ? let me alone with him .
FABIAN : No way but gentleness ; gently , gently : the fiend is rough , and will not be roughly used .
SIR TOBY BELCH : Why , how now , my bawcock ! how dost thou , chuck ?
MALVOLIO : Sir !
