VIOLA : How can this be ?
DUKE ORSINO : When came he to this town ?
ANTONIO : To-day , my lord ; and for three months before , No interim , not a minute 's vacancy , Both day and night did we keep company . Enter OLIVIA and Attendants
DUKE ORSINO : Here comes the countess : now heaven walks on earth . But for thee , fellow ; fellow , thy words are madness : Three months this youth hath tended upon me ; But more of that anon . Take him aside .
OLIVIA : What would my lord , but that he may not have , Wherein Olivia may seem serviceable ? Cesario , you do not keep promise with me .
VIOLA : Madam !
DUKE ORSINO : Gracious Olivia , --
OLIVIA : What do you say , Cesario ? Good my lord , --
VIOLA : My lord would speak ; my duty hushes me .
OLIVIA : If it be aught to the old tune , my lord , It is as fat and fulsome to mine ear As howling after music .
DUKE ORSINO : Still so cruel ?
OLIVIA : Still so constant , lord .
DUKE ORSINO : What , to perverseness ? you uncivil lady , To whose ingrate and unauspicious altars My soul the faithfull 'st offerings hath breathed out That e 'er devotion tender 'd ! What shall I do ?
OLIVIA : Even what it please my lord , that shall become him .
DUKE ORSINO : Why should I not , had I the heart to do it , Like to the Egyptian thief at point of death , Kill what I love ? --a savage jealousy That sometimes savours nobly . But hear me this : Since you to non-regardance cast my faith , And that I partly know the instrument That screws me from my true place in your favour , Live you the marble-breasted tyrant still ; But this your minion , whom I know you love , And whom , by heaven I swear , I tender dearly , Him will I tear out of that cruel eye , Where he sits crowned in his master 's spite . Come , boy , with me ; my thoughts are ripe in mischief : I 'll sacrifice the lamb that I do love , To spite a raven 's heart within a dove .
VIOLA : And I , most jocund , apt and willingly , To do you rest , a thousand deaths would die .
OLIVIA : Where goes Cesario ?
VIOLA : After him I love More than I love these eyes , more than my life , More , by all mores , than e 'er I shall love wife . If I do feign , you witnesses above Punish my life for tainting of my love !
OLIVIA : Ay me , detested ! how am I beguiled !
VIOLA : Who does beguile you ? who does do you wrong ?
OLIVIA : Hast thou forgot thyself ? is it so long ? Call forth the holy father .
DUKE ORSINO : Come , away !
OLIVIA : Whither , my lord ? Cesario , husband , stay .
DUKE ORSINO : Husband !
OLIVIA : Ay , husband : can he that deny ?
DUKE ORSINO : Her husband , sirrah !
VIOLA : No , my lord , not I.
OLIVIA : Alas , it is the baseness of thy fear That makes thee strangle thy propriety : Fear not , Cesario ; take thy fortunes up ; Be that thou know 'st thou art , and then thou art As great as that thou fear 'st . Enter Priest O , welcome , father ! Father , I charge thee , by thy reverence , Here to unfold , though lately we intended To keep in darkness what occasion now Reveals before ' tis ripe , what thou dost know Hath newly pass 'd between this youth and me .
Priest : A contract of eternal bond of love , Confirm 'd by mutual joinder of your hands , Attested by the holy close of lips , Strengthen 'd by interchangement of your rings ; And all the ceremony of this compact Seal 'd in my function , by my testimony : Since when , my watch hath told me , toward my grave I have travell 'd but two hours .
