VIOLA : I see you what you are , you are too proud ; But , if you were the devil , you are fair . My lord and master loves you : O , such love Could be but recompensed , though you were crown 'd The nonpareil of beauty !
OLIVIA : How does he love me ?
VIOLA : With adorations , fertile tears , With groans that thunder love , with sighs of fire .
OLIVIA : Your lord does know my mind ; I cannot love him : Yet I suppose him virtuous , know him noble , Of great estate , of fresh and stainless youth ; In voices well divulged , free , learn 'd and valiant ; And in dimension and the shape of nature A gracious person : but yet I cannot love him ; He might have took his answer long ago .
VIOLA : If I did love you in my master 's flame , With such a suffering , such a deadly life , In your denial I would find no sense ; I would not understand it .
OLIVIA : Why , what would you ?
VIOLA : Make me a willow cabin at your gate , And call upon my soul within the house ; Write loyal cantons of contemned love And sing them loud even in the dead of night ; Halloo your name to the reverberate hills And make the babbling gossip of the air Cry out ' Olivia ! ' O , You should not rest Between the elements of air and earth , But you should pity me !
OLIVIA : You might do much . What is your parentage ?
VIOLA : Above my fortunes , yet my state is well : I am a gentleman .
OLIVIA : Get you to your lord ; I cannot love him : let him send no more ; Unless , perchance , you come to me again , To tell me how he takes it . Fare you well : I thank you for your pains : spend this for me .
VIOLA : I am no fee 'd post , lady ; keep your purse : My master , not myself , lacks recompense . Love make his heart of flint that you shall love ; And let your fervor , like my master 's , be Placed in contempt ! Farewell , fair cruelty . Exit
OLIVIA : ' What is your parentage ? ' ' Above my fortunes , yet my state is well : I am a gentleman . ' I 'll be sworn thou art ; Thy tongue , thy face , thy limbs , actions and spirit , Do give thee five-fold blazon : not too fast : soft , soft ! Unless the master were the man . How now ! Even so quickly may one catch the plague ? Methinks I feel this youth 's perfections With an invisible and subtle stealth To creep in at mine eyes . Well , let it be . What ho , Malvolio ! Re-enter MALVOLIO
MALVOLIO : Here , madam , at your service .
OLIVIA : Run after that same peevish messenger , The county 's man : he left this ring behind him , Would I or not : tell him I 'll none of it . Desire him not to flatter with his lord , Nor hold him up with hopes ; I am not for him : If that the youth will come this way to-morrow , I 'll give him reasons for 't : hie thee , Malvolio .
MALVOLIO : Madam , I will . Exit
OLIVIA : I do I know not what , and fear to find Mine eye too great a flatterer for my mind . Fate , show thy force : ourselves we do not owe ; What is decreed must be , and be this so . Exit Enter ANTONIO and SEBASTIAN
ANTONIO : Will you stay no longer ? nor will you not that I go with you ?
SEBASTIAN : By your patience , no . My stars shine darkly over me : the malignancy of my fate might perhaps distemper yours ; therefore I shall crave of you your leave that I may bear my evils alone : it were a bad recompense for your love , to lay any of them on you . ANTONIO : Let me yet know of you whither you are bound .
