FABIAN : I will not give my part of this sport for a pension of thousands to be paid from the Sophy .
SIR TOBY BELCH : I could marry this wench for this device .
SIR ANDREW : So could I too .
SIR TOBY BELCH : And ask no other dowry with her but such another jest .
SIR ANDREW : Nor I neither .
FABIAN : Here comes my noble gull-catcher . Re-enter MARIA
SIR TOBY BELCH : Wilt thou set thy foot o ' my neck ?
SIR ANDREW : Or o ' mine either ?
SIR TOBY BELCH : Shall I play my freedom at traytrip , and become thy bond-slave ?
SIR ANDREW : I ' faith , or I either ?
SIR TOBY BELCH : Why , thou hast put him in such a dream , that when the image of it leaves him he must run mad .
MARIA : Nay , but say true ; does it work upon him ?
SIR TOBY BELCH : Like aqua-vitae with a midwife .
MARIA : If you will then see the fruits of the sport , mark his first approach before my lady : he will come to her in yellow stockings , and ' tis a colour she abhors , and cross-gartered , a fashion she detests ; and he will smile upon her , which will now be so unsuitable to her disposition , being addicted to a melancholy as she is , that it cannot but turn him into a notable contempt . If you will see it , follow me .
SIR TOBY BELCH : To the gates of Tartar , thou most excellent devil of wit !
SIR ANDREW : I 'll make one too . Enter VIOLA , and Clown with a tabour
VIOLA : Save thee , friend , and thy music : dost thou live by thy tabour ?
Clown : No , sir , I live by the church .
VIOLA : Art thou a churchman ?
Clown : No such matter , sir : I do live by the church ; for I do live at my house , and my house doth stand by the church .
VIOLA : So thou mayst say , the king lies by a beggar , if a beggar dwell near him ; or , the church stands by thy tabour , if thy tabour stand by the church .
Clown : You have said , sir . To see this age ! A sentence is but a cheveril glove to a good wit : how quickly the wrong side may be turned outward !
VIOLA : Nay , that 's certain ; they that dally nicely with words may quickly make them wanton .
Clown : I would , therefore , my sister had had no name , sir .
VIOLA : Why , man ?
Clown : Why , sir , her name 's a word ; and to dally with that word might make my sister wanton . But indeed words are very rascals since bonds disgraced them .
VIOLA : Thy reason , man ?
Clown : Troth , sir , I can yield you none without words ; and words are grown so false , I am loath to prove reason with them .
VIOLA : I warrant thou art a merry fellow and carest for nothing .
Clown : Not so , sir , I do care for something ; but in my conscience , sir , I do not care for you : if that be to care for nothing , sir , I would it would make you invisible .
VIOLA : Art not thou the Lady Olivia 's fool ?
Clown : No , indeed , sir ; the Lady Olivia has no folly : she will keep no fool , sir , till she be married ; and fools are as like husbands as pilchards are to herrings ; the husband 's the bigger : I am indeed not her fool , but her corrupter of words .
VIOLA : I saw thee late at the Count Orsino 's .
Clown : Foolery , sir , does walk about the orb like the sun , it shines every where . I would be sorry , sir , but the fool should be as oft with your master as with my mistress : I think I saw your wisdom there .
