SEBASTIAN : And so had mine .
VIOLA : And died that day when Viola from her birth Had number 'd thirteen years .
SEBASTIAN : O , that record is lively in my soul ! He finished indeed his mortal act That day that made my sister thirteen years .
VIOLA : If nothing lets to make us happy both But this my masculine usurp 'd attire , Do not embrace me till each circumstance Of place , time , fortune , do cohere and jump That I am Viola : which to confirm , I 'll bring you to a captain in this town , Where lie my maiden weeds ; by whose gentle help I was preserved to serve this noble count . All the occurrence of my fortune since Hath been between this lady and this lord .
SEBASTIAN : So comes it , lady , you have been mistook : But nature to her bias drew in that . You would have been contracted to a maid ; Nor are you therein , by my life , deceived , You are betroth 'd both to a maid and man .
DUKE ORSINO : Be not amazed ; right noble is his blood . If this be so , as yet the glass seems true , I shall have share in this most happy wreck . To VIOLA Boy , thou hast said to me a thousand times Thou never shouldst love woman like to me .
VIOLA : And all those sayings will I overswear ; And those swearings keep as true in soul As doth that orbed continent the fire That severs day from night .
DUKE ORSINO : Give me thy hand ; And let me see thee in thy woman 's weeds .
VIOLA : The captain that did bring me first on shore Hath my maid 's garments : he upon some action Is now in durance , at Malvolio 's suit , A gentleman , and follower of my lady 's .
OLIVIA : He shall enlarge him : fetch Malvolio hither : And yet , alas , now I remember me , They say , poor gentleman , he 's much distract . Re-enter Clown with a letter , and FABIAN A most extracting frenzy of mine own From my remembrance clearly banish 'd his . How does he , sirrah ?
Clown : Truly , madam , he holds Belzebub at the staves 's end as well as a man in his case may do : has here writ a letter to you ; I should have given 't you to-day morning , but as a madman 's epistles are no gospels , so it skills not much when they are delivered .
OLIVIA : Open 't , and read it .
Clown : Look then to be well edified when the fool delivers the madman . Reads ' By the Lord , madam , ' --
OLIVIA : How now ! art thou mad ?
Clown : No , madam , I do but read madness : an your ladyship will have it as it ought to be , you must allow Vox .
OLIVIA : Prithee , read i ' thy right wits .
Clown : So I do , madonna ; but to read his right wits is to read thus : therefore perpend , my princess , and give ear .
OLIVIA : Read it you , sirrah . To FABIAN
FABIAN : ' By the Lord , madam , you wrong me , and the world shall know it : though you have put me into darkness and given your drunken cousin rule over me , yet have I the benefit of my senses as well as your ladyship . I have your own letter that induced me to the semblance I put on ; with the which I doubt not but to do myself much right , or you much shame . Think of me as you please . I leave my duty a little unthought of and speak out of my injury . THE MADLY-USED MALVOLIO . ' 
OLIVIA : Did he write this ?
Clown : Ay , madam .
DUKE ORSINO : This savours not much of distraction .
