Clown : Maintain no words with him , good fellow . Who , I , sir ? not I , sir . God be wi ' you , good Sir Topas . Merry , amen . I will , sir , I will .
MALVOLIO : Fool , fool , fool , I say !
Clown : Alas , sir , be patient . What say you sir ? I am shent for speaking to you .
MALVOLIO : Good fool , help me to some light and some paper : I tell thee , I am as well in my wits as any man in Illyria .
Clown : Well-a-day that you were , sir
MALVOLIO : By this hand , I am . Good fool , some ink , paper and light ; and convey what I will set down to my lady : it shall advantage thee more than ever the bearing of letter did .
Clown : I will help you to 't . But tell me true , are you not mad indeed ? or do you but counterfeit ?
MALVOLIO : Believe me , I am not ; I tell thee true .
Clown : Nay , I 'll ne 'er believe a madman till I see his brains . I will fetch you light and paper and ink .
MALVOLIO : Fool , I 'll requite it in the highest degree : I prithee , be gone .
Clown : I am gone , sir , And anon , sir , I 'll be with you again , In a trice , Like to the old Vice , Your need to sustain ; Who , with dagger of lath , In his rage and his wrath , Cries , ah , ha ! to the devil : Like a mad lad , Pare thy nails , dad ; Adieu , good man devil . Exit Enter SEBASTIAN
SEBASTIAN : This is the air ; that is the glorious sun ; This pearl she gave me , I do feel 't and see 't ; And though ' tis wonder that enwraps me thus , Yet ' tis not madness . Where 's Antonio , then ? I could not find him at the Elephant : Yet there he was ; and there I found this credit , That he did range the town to seek me out . His counsel now might do me golden service ; For though my soul disputes well with my sense , That this may be some error , but no madness , Yet doth this accident and flood of fortune So far exceed all instance , all discourse , That I am ready to distrust mine eyes And wrangle with my reason that persuades me To any other trust but that I am mad Or else the lady 's mad ; yet , if ' twere so , She could not sway her house , command her followers , Take and give back affairs and their dispatch With such a smooth , discreet and stable bearing As I perceive she does : there 's something in 't That is deceiveable . But here the lady comes . Enter OLIVIA and Priest
OLIVIA : Blame not this haste of mine . If you mean well , Now go with me and with this holy man Into the chantry by : there , before him , And underneath that consecrated roof , Plight me the full assurance of your faith ; That my most jealous and too doubtful soul May live at peace . He shall conceal it Whiles you are willing it shall come to note , What time we will our celebration keep According to my birth . What do you say ?
SEBASTIAN : I 'll follow this good man , and go with you ; And , having sworn truth , ever will be true .
OLIVIA : Then lead the way , good father ; and heavens so shine , That they may fairly note this act of mine ! Enter Clown and FABIAN
FABIAN : Now , as thou lovest me , let me see his letter .
Clown : Good Master Fabian , grant me another request .
FABIAN : Any thing .
Clown : Do not desire to see this letter .
FABIAN : This is , to give a dog , and in recompense desire my dog again . Enter DUKE ORSINO , VIOLA , CURIO , and Lords
