VIOLA : I think it well , my lord .
DUKE ORSINO : Then let thy love be younger than thyself , Or thy affection cannot hold the bent ; For women are as roses , whose fair flower Being once display 'd , doth fall that very hour .
VIOLA : And so they are : alas , that they are so ; To die , even when they to perfection grow ! Re-enter CURIO and Clown
DUKE ORSINO : O , fellow , come , the song we had last night . Mark it , Cesario , it is old and plain ; The spinsters and the knitters in the sun And the free maids that weave their thread with bones Do use to chant it : it is silly sooth , And dallies with the innocence of love , Like the old age .
Clown : Are you ready , sir ?
DUKE ORSINO : Ay ; prithee , sing . Music SONG .
Clown : Come away , come away , death , And in sad cypress let me be laid ; Fly away , fly away breath ; I am slain by a fair cruel maid . My shroud of white , stuck all with yew , O , prepare it ! My part of death , no one so true Did share it . Not a flower , not a flower sweet On my black coffin let there be strown ; Not a friend , not a friend greet My poor corpse , where my bones shall be thrown : A thousand thousand sighs to save , Lay me , O , where Sad true lover never find my grave , To weep there !
DUKE ORSINO : There 's for thy pains .
Clown : No pains , sir : I take pleasure in singing , sir .
DUKE ORSINO : I 'll pay thy pleasure then .
Clown : Truly , sir , and pleasure will be paid , one time or another .
DUKE ORSINO : Give me now leave to leave thee .
Clown : Now , the melancholy god protect thee ; and the tailor make thy doublet of changeable taffeta , for thy mind is a very opal . I would have men of such constancy put to sea , that their business might be every thing and their intent every where ; for that 's it that always makes a good voyage of nothing . Farewell . Exit
DUKE ORSINO : Let all the rest give place . CURIO and Attendants retire Once more , Cesario , Get thee to yond same sovereign cruelty : Tell her , my love , more noble than the world , Prizes not quantity of dirty lands ; The parts that fortune hath bestow 'd upon her , Tell her , I hold as giddily as fortune ; But ' tis that miracle and queen of gems That nature pranks her in attracts my soul .
VIOLA : But if she cannot love you , sir ?
DUKE ORSINO : I cannot be so answer 'd .
VIOLA : Sooth , but you must . Say that some lady , as perhaps there is , Hath for your love a great a pang of heart As you have for Olivia : you cannot love her ; You tell her so ; must she not then be answer 'd ?
DUKE ORSINO : There is no woman 's sides Can bide the beating of so strong a passion As love doth give my heart ; no woman 's heart So big , to hold so much ; they lack retention Alas , their love may be call 'd appetite , No motion of the liver , but the palate , That suffer surfeit , cloyment and revolt ; But mine is all as hungry as the sea , And can digest as much : make no compare Between that love a woman can bear me And that I owe Olivia .
VIOLA : Ay , but I know--
DUKE ORSINO : What dost thou know ?
VIOLA : Too well what love women to men may owe : In faith , they are as true of heart as we . My father had a daughter loved a man , As it might be , perhaps , were I a woman , I should your lordship .
DUKE ORSINO : And what 's her history ?
