SIR TOBY BELCH : Why , then , build me thy fortunes upon the basis of valour . Challenge me the count 's youth to fight with him ; hurt him in eleven places : my niece shall take note of it ; and assure thyself , there is no love-broker in the world can more prevail in man 's commendation with woman than report of valour .
FABIAN : There is no way but this , Sir Andrew .
SIR ANDREW : Will either of you bear me a challenge to him ?
SIR TOBY BELCH : Go , write it in a martial hand ; be curst and brief ; it is no matter how witty , so it be eloquent and fun of invention : taunt him with the licence of ink : if thou thou 'st him some thrice , it shall not be amiss ; and as many lies as will lie in thy sheet of paper , although the sheet were big enough for the bed of Ware in England , set ' em down : go , about it . Let there be gall enough in thy ink , though thou write with a goose-pen , no matter : about it .
SIR ANDREW : Where shall I find you ?
SIR TOBY BELCH : We 'll call thee at the cubiculo : go . Exit SIR ANDREW
FABIAN : This is a dear manikin to you , Sir Toby .
SIR TOBY BELCH : I have been dear to him , lad , some two thousand strong , or so .
FABIAN : We shall have a rare letter from him : but you 'll not deliver 't ?
SIR TOBY BELCH : Never trust me , then ; and by all means stir on the youth to an answer . I think oxen and wainropes cannot hale them together . For Andrew , if he were opened , and you find so much blood in his liver as will clog the foot of a flea , I 'll eat the rest of the anatomy .
FABIAN : And his opposite , the youth , bears in his visage no great presage of cruelty . Enter MARIA
SIR TOBY BELCH : Look , where the youngest wren of nine comes .
MARIA : If you desire the spleen , and will laugh yourself into stitches , follow me . Yond gull Malvolio is turned heathen , a very renegado ; for there is no Christian , that means to be saved by believing rightly , can ever believe such impossible passages of grossness . He 's in yellow stockings .
SIR TOBY BELCH : And cross-gartered ?
MARIA : Most villanously ; like a pedant that keeps a school i ' the church . I have dogged him , like his murderer . He does obey every point of the letter that I dropped to betray him : he does smile his face into more lines than is in the new map with the augmentation of the Indies : you have not seen such a thing as ' tis . I can hardly forbear hurling things at him . I know my lady will strike him : if she do , he 'll smile and take 't for a great favour .
SIR TOBY BELCH : Come , bring us , bring us where he is . Enter SEBASTIAN and ANTONIO
SEBASTIAN : I would not by my will have troubled you ; But , since you make your pleasure of your pains , I will no further chide you .
ANTONIO : I could not stay behind you : my desire , More sharp than filed steel , did spur me forth ; And not all love to see you , though so much As might have drawn one to a longer voyage , But jealousy what might befall your travel , Being skilless in these parts ; which to a stranger , Unguided and unfriended , often prove Rough and unhospitable : my willing love , The rather by these arguments of fear , Set forth in your pursuit .
SEBASTIAN : My kind Antonio , I can no other answer make but thanks , And thanks ; and ever oft good turns Are shuffled off with such uncurrent pay : But , were my worth as is my conscience firm , You should find better dealing . What 's to do ? Shall we go see the reliques of this town ?
