Clown : Now Jove , in his next commodity of hair , send thee a beard !
VIOLA : By my troth , I 'll tell thee , I am almost sick for one ; Aside though I would not have it grow on my chin . Is thy lady within ?
Clown : Would not a pair of these have bred , sir ?
VIOLA : Yes , being kept together and put to use .
Clown : I would play Lord Pandarus of Phrygia , sir , to bring a Cressida to this Troilus .
VIOLA : I understand you , sir ; ' tis well begged .
Clown : The matter , I hope , is not great , sir , begging but a beggar : Cressida was a beggar . My lady is within , sir . I will construe to them whence you come ; who you are and what you would are out of my welkin , I might say ' element , ' but the word is over-worn . Exit
VIOLA : This fellow is wise enough to play the fool ; And to do that well craves a kind of wit : He must observe their mood on whom he jests , The quality of persons , and the time , And , like the haggard , cheque at every feather That comes before his eye . This is a practise As full of labour as a wise man 's art For folly that he wisely shows is fit ; But wise men , folly-fall 'n , quite taint their wit . Enter SIR TOBY BELCH , and SIR ANDREW
SIR TOBY BELCH : Save you , gentleman .
VIOLA : And you , sir .
SIR ANDREW : Dieu vous garde , monsieur .
VIOLA : Et vous aussi ; votre serviteur .
SIR ANDREW : I hope , sir , you are ; and I am yours .
SIR TOBY BELCH : Will you encounter the house ? my niece is desirous you should enter , if your trade be to her .
VIOLA : I am bound to your niece , sir ; I mean , she is the list of my voyage .
SIR TOBY BELCH : Taste your legs , sir ; put them to motion .
VIOLA : My legs do better understand me , sir , than I understand what you mean by bidding me taste my legs .
SIR TOBY BELCH : I mean , to go , sir , to enter .
VIOLA : I will answer you with gait and entrance . But we are prevented . Enter OLIVIA and MARIA Most excellent accomplished lady , the heavens rain odours on you !
SIR ANDREW : That youth 's a rare courtier : ' Rain odours ; ' well .
VIOLA : My matter hath no voice , to your own most pregnant and vouchsafed ear .
SIR ANDREW : ' Odours , ' ' pregnant ' and ' vouchsafed : ' I 'll get ' em all three all ready .
OLIVIA : Let the garden door be shut , and leave me to my hearing . Give me your hand , sir .
VIOLA : My duty , madam , and most humble service .
OLIVIA : What is your name ?
VIOLA : Cesario is your servant 's name , fair princess .
OLIVIA : My servant , sir ! ' Twas never merry world Since lowly feigning was call 'd compliment : You 're servant to the Count Orsino , youth .
VIOLA : And he is yours , and his must needs be yours : Your servant 's servant is your servant , madam .
OLIVIA : For him , I think not on him : for his thoughts , Would they were blanks , rather than fill 'd with me !
VIOLA : Madam , I come to whet your gentle thoughts On his behalf .
OLIVIA : O , by your leave , I pray you , I bade you never speak again of him : But , would you undertake another suit , I had rather hear you to solicit that Than music from the spheres .
VIOLA : Dear lady , --
