SEBASTIAN : I prithee , foolish Greek , depart from me : There 's money for thee : if you tarry longer , I shall give worse payment .
Clown : By my troth , thou hast an open hand . These wise men that give fools money get themselves a good report--after fourteen years ' purchase . Enter SIR ANDREW , SIR TOBY BELCH , and FABIAN
SIR ANDREW : Now , sir , have I met you again ? there 's for you .
SEBASTIAN : Why , there 's for thee , and there , and there . Are all the people mad ?
SIR TOBY BELCH : Hold , sir , or I 'll throw your dagger o 'er the house .
Clown : This will I tell my lady straight : I would not be in some of your coats for two pence . Exit
SIR TOBY BELCH : Come on , sir ; hold .
SIR ANDREW : Nay , let him alone : I 'll go another way to work with him ; I 'll have an action of battery against him , if there be any law in Illyria : though I struck him first , yet it 's no matter for that .
SEBASTIAN : Let go thy hand .
SIR TOBY BELCH : Come , sir , I will not let you go . Come , my young soldier , put up your iron : you are well fleshed ; come on .
SEBASTIAN : I will be free from thee . What wouldst thou now ? If thou darest tempt me further , draw thy sword .
SIR TOBY BELCH : What , what ? Nay , then I must have an ounce or two of this malapert blood from you . Enter OLIVIA
OLIVIA : Hold , Toby ; on thy life I charge thee , hold !
SIR TOBY BELCH : Madam !
OLIVIA : Will it be ever thus ? Ungracious wretch , Fit for the mountains and the barbarous caves , Where manners ne 'er were preach 'd ! out of my sight ! Be not offended , dear Cesario . Rudesby , be gone ! I prithee , gentle friend , Let thy fair wisdom , not thy passion , sway In this uncivil and thou unjust extent Against thy peace . Go with me to my house , And hear thou there how many fruitless pranks This ruffian hath botch 'd up , that thou thereby Mayst smile at this : thou shalt not choose but go : Do not deny . Beshrew his soul for me , He started one poor heart of mine in thee .
SEBASTIAN : What relish is in this ? how runs the stream ? Or I am mad , or else this is a dream : Let fancy still my sense in Lethe steep ; If it be thus to dream , still let me sleep !
OLIVIA : Nay , come , I prithee ; would thou 'ldst be ruled by me !
SEBASTIAN : Madam , I will .
OLIVIA : O , say so , and so be ! Enter MARIA and Clown
MARIA : Nay , I prithee , put on this gown and this beard ; make him believe thou art Sir Topas the curate : do it quickly ; I 'll call Sir Toby the whilst . Exit
Clown : Well , I 'll put it on , and I will dissemble myself in 't ; and I would I were the first that ever dissembled in such a gown . I am not tall enough to become the function well , nor lean enough to be thought a good student ; but to be said an honest man and a good housekeeper goes as fairly as to say a careful man and a great scholar . The competitors enter . Enter SIR TOBY BELCH and MARIA
SIR TOBY BELCH : Jove bless thee , master Parson .
Clown : Bonos dies , Sir Toby : for , as the old hermit of Prague , that never saw pen and ink , very wittily said to a niece of King Gorboduc , ' That that is is ; ' so I , being Master Parson , am Master Parson ; for , what is ' that ' but ' that , ' and ' is ' but ' is ' ?
SIR TOBY BELCH : To him , Sir Topas .
