DUKE ORSINO : Madam , I am most apt to embrace your offer . To VIOLA Your master quits you ; and for your service done him , So much against the mettle of your sex , So far beneath your soft and tender breeding , And since you call 'd me master for so long , Here is my hand : you shall from this time be Your master 's mistress .
OLIVIA : A sister ! you are she . Re-enter FABIAN , with MALVOLIO
DUKE ORSINO : Is this the madman ?
OLIVIA : Ay , my lord , this same . How now , Malvolio !
MALVOLIO : Madam , you have done me wrong , Notorious wrong .
OLIVIA : Have I , Malvolio ? no .
MALVOLIO : Lady , you have . Pray you , peruse that letter . You must not now deny it is your hand : Write from it , if you can , in hand or phrase ; Or say ' tis not your seal , nor your invention : You can say none of this : well , grant it then And tell me , in the modesty of honour , Why you have given me such clear lights of favour , Bade me come smiling and cross-garter 'd to you , To put on yellow stockings and to frown Upon Sir Toby and the lighter people ; And , acting this in an obedient hope , Why have you suffer 'd me to be imprison 'd , Kept in a dark house , visited by the priest , And made the most notorious geck and gull That e 'er invention play 'd on ? tell me why .
OLIVIA : Alas , Malvolio , this is not my writing , Though , I confess , much like the character But out of question ' tis Maria 's hand . And now I do bethink me , it was she First told me thou wast mad ; then camest in smiling , And in such forms which here were presupposed Upon thee in the letter . Prithee , be content : This practise hath most shrewdly pass 'd upon thee ; But when we know the grounds and authors of it , Thou shalt be both the plaintiff and the judge Of thine own cause .
FABIAN : Good madam , hear me speak , And let no quarrel nor no brawl to come Taint the condition of this present hour , Which I have wonder 'd at . In hope it shall not , Most freely I confess , myself and Toby Set this device against Malvolio here , Upon some stubborn and uncourteous parts We had conceived against him : Maria writ The letter at Sir Toby 's great importance ; In recompense whereof he hath married her . How with a sportful malice it was follow 'd , May rather pluck on laughter than revenge ; If that the injuries be justly weigh 'd That have on both sides pass 'd .
OLIVIA : Alas , poor fool , how have they baffled thee !
Clown : Why , ' some are born great , some achieve greatness , and some have greatness thrown upon them . ' I was one , sir , in this interlude ; one Sir Topas , sir ; but that 's all one . ' By the Lord , fool , I am not mad . ' But do you remember ? ' Madam , why laugh you at such a barren rascal ? an you smile not , he 's gagged : ' and thus the whirligig of time brings in his revenges .
MALVOLIO : I 'll be revenged on the whole pack of you . Exit
OLIVIA : He hath been most notoriously abused .
DUKE ORSINO : Pursue him and entreat him to a peace : He hath not told us of the captain yet : When that is known and golden time convents , A solemn combination shall be made Of our dear souls . Meantime , sweet sister , We will not part from hence . Cesario , come ; For so you shall be , while you are a man ; But when in other habits you are seen , Orsino 's mistress and his fancy 's queen .
