MARIA : That if one break , the other will hold ; or , if both break , your gaskins fall .
Clown : Apt , in good faith ; very apt . Well , go thy way ; if Sir Toby would leave drinking , thou wert as witty a piece of Eve 's flesh as any in Illyria .
MARIA : Peace , you rogue , no more o ' that . Here comes my lady : make your excuse wisely , you were best . Exit
Clown : Wit , an 't be thy will , put me into good fooling ! Those wits , that think they have thee , do very oft prove fools ; and I , that am sure I lack thee , may pass for a wise man : for what says Quinapalus ? ' Better a witty fool , than a foolish wit . ' Enter OLIVIA with MALVOLIO God bless thee , lady !
OLIVIA : Take the fool away .
Clown : Do you not hear , fellows ? Take away the lady .
OLIVIA : Go to , you 're a dry fool ; I 'll no more of you : besides , you grow dishonest .
Clown : Two faults , madonna , that drink and good counsel will amend : for give the dry fool drink , then is the fool not dry : bid the dishonest man mend himself ; if he mend , he is no longer dishonest ; if he cannot , let the botcher mend him . Any thing that 's mended is but patched : virtue that transgresses is but patched with sin ; and sin that amends is but patched with virtue . If that this simple syllogism will serve , so ; if it will not , what remedy ? As there is no true cuckold but calamity , so beauty 's a flower . The lady bade take away the fool ; therefore , I say again , take her away .
OLIVIA : Sir , I bade them take away you .
Clown : Misprision in the highest degree ! Lady , cucullus non facit monachum ; that 's as much to say as I wear not motley in my brain . Good madonna , give me leave to prove you a fool .
OLIVIA : Can you do it ?
Clown : Dexterously , good madonna .
OLIVIA : Make your proof .
Clown : I must catechise you for it , madonna : good my mouse of virtue , answer me .
OLIVIA : Well , sir , for want of other idleness , I 'll bide your proof .
Clown : Good madonna , why mournest thou ?
OLIVIA : Good fool , for my brother 's death .
Clown : I think his soul is in hell , madonna .
OLIVIA : I know his soul is in heaven , fool .
Clown : The more fool , madonna , to mourn for your brother 's soul being in heaven . Take away the fool , gentlemen .
OLIVIA : What think you of this fool , Malvolio ? doth he not mend ?
MALVOLIO : Yes , and shall do till the pangs of death shake him : infirmity , that decays the wise , doth ever make the better fool .
Clown : God send you , sir , a speedy infirmity , for the better increasing your folly ! Sir Toby will be sworn that I am no fox ; but he will not pass his word for two pence that you are no fool .
OLIVIA : How say you to that , Malvolio ?
MALVOLIO : I marvel your ladyship takes delight in such a barren rascal : I saw him put down the other day with an ordinary fool that has no more brain than a stone . Look you now , he 's out of his guard already ; unless you laugh and minister occasion to him , he is gagged . I protest , I take these wise men , that crow so at these set kind of fools , no better than the fools ' zanies .
