VIOLA : I shall be much bound to you for 't : I am one that had rather go with sir priest than sir knight : I care not who knows so much of my mettle . Re-enter SIR TOBY BELCH , with SIR ANDREW
SIR TOBY BELCH : Why , man , he 's a very devil ; I have not seen such a firago . I had a pass with him , rapier , scabbard and all , and he gives me the stuck in with such a mortal motion , that it is inevitable ; and on the answer , he pays you as surely as your feet hit the ground they step on . They say he has been fencer to the Sophy .
SIR ANDREW : Pox on 't , I 'll not meddle with him .
SIR TOBY BELCH : Ay , but he will not now be pacified : Fabian can scarce hold him yonder .
SIR ANDREW : Plague on 't , an I thought he had been valiant and so cunning in fence , I 'ld have seen him damned ere I 'ld have challenged him . Let him let the matter slip , and I 'll give him my horse , grey Capilet .
SIR TOBY BELCH : I 'll make the motion : stand here , make a good show on 't : this shall end without the perdition of souls . Aside Marry , I 'll ride your horse as well as I ride you . Re-enter FABIAN and VIOLA To FABIAN I have his horse to take up the quarrel : I have persuaded him the youth 's a devil .
FABIAN : He is as horribly conceited of him ; and pants and looks pale , as if a bear were at his heels .
SIR TOBY BELCH : There 's no remedy , sir ; he will fight with you for 's oath sake : marry , he hath better bethought him of his quarrel , and he finds that now scarce to be worth talking of : therefore draw , for the supportance of his vow ; he protests he will not hurt you .
VIOLA : Pray God defend me ! A little thing would make me tell them how much I lack of a man .
FABIAN : Give ground , if you see him furious .
SIR TOBY BELCH : Come , Sir Andrew , there 's no remedy ; the gentleman will , for his honour 's sake , have one bout with you ; he cannot by the duello avoid it : but he has promised me , as he is a gentleman and a soldier , he will not hurt you . Come on ; to 't .
SIR ANDREW : Pray God , he keep his oath !
VIOLA : I do assure you , ' tis against my will . They draw Enter ANTONIO
ANTONIO : Put up your sword . If this young gentleman Have done offence , I take the fault on me : If you offend him , I for him defy you .
SIR TOBY BELCH : You , sir ! why , what are you ?
ANTONIO : One , sir , that for his love dares yet do more Than you have heard him brag to you he will .
SIR TOBY BELCH : Nay , if you be an undertaker , I am for you . They draw Enter Officers
FABIAN : O good Sir Toby , hold ! here come the officers .
SIR TOBY BELCH : I 'll be with you anon .
VIOLA : Pray , sir , put your sword up , if you please .
SIR ANDREW : Marry , will I , sir ; and , for that I promised you , I 'll be as good as my word : he will bear you easily and reins well .
First Officer : This is the man ; do thy office .
Second Officer : Antonio , I arrest thee at the suit of Count Orsino .
ANTONIO : You do mistake me , sir .
First Officer : No , sir , no jot ; I know your favour well , Though now you have no sea-cap on your head . Take him away : he knows I know him well .
