SIR TOBY BELCH : The knave counterfeits well ; a good knave .
MALVOLIO : Who calls there ?
Clown : Sir Topas the curate , who comes to visit Malvolio the lunatic .
MALVOLIO : Sir Topas , Sir Topas , good Sir Topas , go to my lady .
Clown : Out , hyperbolical fiend ! how vexest thou this man ! talkest thou nothing but of ladies ?
SIR TOBY BELCH : Well said , Master Parson .
MALVOLIO : Sir Topas , never was man thus wronged : good Sir Topas , do not think I am mad : they have laid me here in hideous darkness .
Clown : Fie , thou dishonest Satan ! I call thee by the most modest terms ; for I am one of those gentle ones that will use the devil himself with courtesy : sayest thou that house is dark ?
MALVOLIO : As hell , Sir Topas .
Clown : Why it hath bay windows transparent as barricadoes , and the clearstores toward the south north are as lustrous as ebony ; and yet complainest thou of obstruction ?
MALVOLIO : I am not mad , Sir Topas : I say to you , this house is dark .
Clown : Madman , thou errest : I say , there is no darkness but ignorance ; in which thou art more puzzled than the Egyptians in their fog .
MALVOLIO : I say , this house is as dark as ignorance , though ignorance were as dark as hell ; and I say , there was never man thus abused . I am no more mad than you are : make the trial of it in any constant question .
Clown : What is the opinion of Pythagoras concerning wild fowl ?
MALVOLIO : That the soul of our grandam might haply inhabit a bird .
Clown : What thinkest thou of his opinion ?
MALVOLIO : I think nobly of the soul , and no way approve his opinion .
Clown : Fare thee well . Remain thou still in darkness : thou shalt hold the opinion of Pythagoras ere I will allow of thy wits , and fear to kill a woodcock , lest thou dispossess the soul of thy grandam . Fare thee well .
MALVOLIO : Sir Topas , Sir Topas !
SIR TOBY BELCH : My most exquisite Sir Topas !
Clown : Nay , I am for all waters .
MARIA : Thou mightst have done this without thy beard and gown : he sees thee not .
SIR TOBY BELCH : To him in thine own voice , and bring me word how thou findest him : I would we were well rid of this knavery . If he may be conveniently delivered , I would he were , for I am now so far in offence with my niece that I cannot pursue with any safety this sport to the upshot . Come by and by to my chamber .
Clown : ' Hey , Robin , jolly Robin , Tell me how thy lady does . ' 
MALVOLIO : Fool !
Clown : ' My lady is unkind , perdy . ' 
MALVOLIO : Fool !
Clown : ' Alas , why is she so ? '
MALVOLIO : Fool , I say !
Clown : ' She loves another ' --Who calls , ha ?
MALVOLIO : Good fool , as ever thou wilt deserve well at my hand , help me to a candle , and pen , ink and paper : as I am a gentleman , I will live to be thankful to thee for 't .
Clown : Master Malvolio ?
MALVOLIO : Ay , good fool .
Clown : Alas , sir , how fell you besides your five wits ?
MALVOLIO : Fool , there was never a man so notoriously abused : I am as well in my wits , fool , as thou art .
Clown : But as well ? then you are mad indeed , if you be no better in your wits than a fool .
MALVOLIO : They have here propertied me ; keep me in darkness , send ministers to me , asses , and do all they can to face me out of my wits .
Clown : Advise you what you say ; the minister is here . Malvolio , Malvolio , thy wits the heavens restore ! endeavour thyself to sleep , and leave thy vain bibble babble .
