Clown : Now Mercury endue thee with leasing , for thou speakest well of fools ! Re-enter MARIA
MARIA : Madam , there is at the gate a young gentleman much desires to speak with you .
OLIVIA : From the Count Orsino , is it ?
MARIA : I know not , madam : ' tis a fair young man , and well attended .
OLIVIA : Who of my people hold him in delay ?
MARIA : Sir Toby , madam , your kinsman .
OLIVIA : Fetch him off , I pray you ; he speaks nothing but madman : fie on him ! Exit MARIA Go you , Malvolio : if it be a suit from the count , I am sick , or not at home ; what you will , to dismiss it . Exit MALVOLIO Now you see , sir , how your fooling grows old , and people dislike it .
Clown : Thou hast spoke for us , madonna , as if thy eldest son should be a fool ; whose skull Jove cram with brains ! for , --here he comes , --one of thy kin has a most weak pia mater . Enter SIR TOBY BELCH
OLIVIA : By mine honour , half drunk . What is he at the gate , cousin ?
SIR TOBY BELCH : A gentleman .
OLIVIA : A gentleman ! what gentleman ?
SIR TOBY BELCH : ' Tis a gentle man here--a plague o ' these pickle-herring ! How now , sot !
Clown : Good Sir Toby !
OLIVIA : Cousin , cousin , how have you come so early by this lethargy ?
SIR TOBY BELCH : Lechery ! I defy lechery . There 's one at the gate .
OLIVIA : Ay , marry , what is he ?
SIR TOBY BELCH : Let him be the devil , an he will , I care not : give me faith , say I. Well , it 's all one . Exit
OLIVIA : What 's a drunken man like , fool ?
Clown : Like a drowned man , a fool and a mad man : one draught above heat makes him a fool ; the second mads him ; and a third drowns him .
OLIVIA : Go thou and seek the crowner , and let him sit o ' my coz ; for he 's in the third degree of drink , he 's drowned : go , look after him .
Clown : He is but mad yet , madonna ; and the fool shall look to the madman . Exit Re-enter MALVOLIO
MALVOLIO : Madam , yond young fellow swears he will speak with you . I told him you were sick ; he takes on him to understand so much , and therefore comes to speak with you . I told him you were asleep ; he seems to have a foreknowledge of that too , and therefore comes to speak with you . What is to be said to him , lady ? he 's fortified against any denial .
OLIVIA : Tell him he shall not speak with me .
MALVOLIO : Has been told so ; and he says , he 'll stand at your door like a sheriff 's post , and be the supporter to a bench , but he 'll speak with you .
OLIVIA : What kind o ' man is he ?
MALVOLIO : Why , of mankind .
OLIVIA : What manner of man ?
MALVOLIO : Of very ill manner ; he 'll speak with you , will you or no .
OLIVIA : Of what personage and years is he ?
MALVOLIO : Not yet old enough for a man , nor young enough for a boy ; as a squash is before ' tis a peascod , or a cooling when ' tis almost an apple : ' tis with him in standing water , between boy and man . He is very well-favoured and he speaks very shrewishly ; one would think his mother 's milk were scarce out of him .
OLIVIA : Let him approach : call in my gentlewoman .
MALVOLIO : Gentlewoman , my lady calls . Exit Re-enter MARIA
OLIVIA : Give me my veil : come , throw it o 'er my face . We 'll once more hear Orsino 's embassy . Enter VIOLA , and Attendants
VIOLA : The honourable lady of the house , which is she ?
