SIR ANDREW : Faith , so they say ; but I think it rather consists of eating and drinking .
SIR TOBY BELCH : Thou 'rt a scholar ; let us therefore eat and drink . Marian , I say ! a stoup of wine ! Enter Clown
SIR ANDREW : Here comes the fool , i ' faith .
Clown : How now , my hearts ! did you never see the picture of ' we three ' ?
SIR TOBY BELCH : Welcome , ass . Now let 's have a catch .
SIR ANDREW : By my troth , the fool has an excellent breast . I had rather than forty shillings I had such a leg , and so sweet a breath to sing , as the fool has . In sooth , thou wast in very gracious fooling last night , when thou spokest of Pigrogromitus , of the Vapians passing the equinoctial of Queubus : ' twas very good , i ' faith . I sent thee sixpence for thy leman : hadst it ?
Clown : I did impeticos thy gratillity ; for Malvolio 's nose is no whipstock : my lady has a white hand , and the Myrmidons are no bottle-ale houses .
SIR ANDREW : Excellent ! why , this is the best fooling , when all is done . Now , a song .
SIR TOBY BELCH : Come on ; there is sixpence for you : let 's have a song .
SIR ANDREW : There 's a testril of me too : if one knight give a--
Clown : Would you have a love-song , or a song of good life ?
SIR TOBY BELCH : A love-song , a love-song .
SIR ANDREW : Ay , ay : I care not for good life .
Clown : O mistress mine , where are you roaming ? O , stay and hear ; your true love 's coming , That can sing both high and low : Trip no further , pretty sweeting ; Journeys end in lovers meeting , Every wise man 's son doth know .
SIR ANDREW : Excellent good , i ' faith .
SIR TOBY BELCH : Good , good .
Clown : What is love ? ' tis not hereafter ; Present mirth hath present laughter ; What 's to come is still unsure : In delay there lies no plenty ; Then come kiss me , sweet and twenty , Youth 's a stuff will not endure .
SIR ANDREW : A mellifluous voice , as I am true knight .
SIR TOBY BELCH : A contagious breath .
SIR ANDREW : Very sweet and contagious , i ' faith .
SIR TOBY BELCH : To hear by the nose , it is dulcet in contagion . But shall we make the welkin dance indeed ? shall we rouse the night-owl in a catch that will draw three souls out of one weaver ? shall we do that ?
SIR ANDREW : An you love me , let 's do 't : I am dog at a catch .
Clown : By 'r lady , sir , and some dogs will catch well .
SIR ANDREW : Most certain . Let our catch be , ' Thou knave . ' 
Clown : ' Hold thy peace , thou knave , ' knight ? I shall be constrained in 't to call thee knave , knight .
SIR ANDREW : ' Tis not the first time I have constrained one to call me knave . Begin , fool : it begins ' Hold thy peace . ' 
Clown : I shall never begin if I hold my peace .
SIR ANDREW : Good , i ' faith . Come , begin . Catch sung Enter MARIA
MARIA : What a caterwauling do you keep here ! If my lady have not called up her steward Malvolio and bid him turn you out of doors , never trust me .
SIR TOBY BELCH : My lady 's a Cataian , we are politicians , Malvolio 's a Peg-a-Ramsey , and ' Three merry men be we . ' Am not I consanguineous ? am I not of her blood ? Tillyvally . Lady ! Sings ' There dwelt a man in Babylon , lady , lady ! '
Clown : Beshrew me , the knight 's in admirable fooling .
