VIOLA : Most radiant , exquisite and unmatchable beauty , --I pray you , tell me if this be the lady of the house , for I never saw her : I would be loath to cast away my speech , for besides that it is excellently well penned , I have taken great pains to con it . Good beauties , let me sustain no scorn ; I am very comptible , even to the least sinister usage .
OLIVIA : Whence came you , sir ?
VIOLA : I can say little more than I have studied , and that question 's out of my part . Good gentle one , give me modest assurance if you be the lady of the house , that I may proceed in my speech .
OLIVIA : Are you a comedian ?
VIOLA : No , my profound heart : and yet , by the very fangs of malice I swear , I am not that I play . Are you the lady of the house ?
OLIVIA : If I do not usurp myself , I am .
VIOLA : Most certain , if you are she , you do usurp yourself ; for what is yours to bestow is not yours to reserve . But this is from my commission : I will on with my speech in your praise , and then show you the heart of my message .
OLIVIA : Come to what is important in 't : I forgive you the praise .
VIOLA : Alas , I took great pains to study it , and ' tis poetical .
OLIVIA : It is the more like to be feigned : I pray you , keep it in . I heard you were saucy at my gates , and allowed your approach rather to wonder at you than to hear you . If you be not mad , be gone ; if you have reason , be brief : ' tis not that time of moon with me to make one in so skipping a dialogue .
MARIA : Will you hoist sail , sir ? here lies your way .
VIOLA : No , good swabber ; I am to hull here a little longer . Some mollification for your giant , sweet lady . Tell me your mind : I am a messenger .
OLIVIA : Sure , you have some hideous matter to deliver , when the courtesy of it is so fearful . Speak your office .
VIOLA : It alone concerns your ear . I bring no overture of war , no taxation of homage : I hold the olive in my hand ; my words are as fun of peace as matter .
OLIVIA : Yet you began rudely . What are you ? what would you ?
VIOLA : The rudeness that hath appeared in me have I learned from my entertainment . What I am , and what I would , are as secret as maidenhead ; to your ears , divinity , to any other 's , profanation .
OLIVIA : Give us the place alone : we will hear this divinity . Now , sir , what is your text ?
VIOLA : Most sweet lady , --
OLIVIA : A comfortable doctrine , and much may be said of it . Where lies your text ?
VIOLA : In Orsino 's bosom .
OLIVIA : In his bosom ! In what chapter of his bosom ?
VIOLA : To answer by the method , in the first of his heart .
OLIVIA : O , I have read it : it is heresy . Have you no more to say ?
VIOLA : Good madam , let me see your face .
OLIVIA : Have you any commission from your lord to negotiate with my face ? You are now out of your text : but we will draw the curtain and show you the picture . Look you , sir , such a one I was this present : is 't not well done ? Unveiling
VIOLA : Excellently done , if God did all .
OLIVIA : ' Tis in grain , sir ; ' twill endure wind and weather .
VIOLA : ' Tis beauty truly blent , whose red and white Nature 's own sweet and cunning hand laid on : Lady , you are the cruell 'st she alive , If you will lead these graces to the grave And leave the world no copy .
