Clown : Ay , sir ; we are some of her trappings .
DUKE ORSINO : I know thee well ; how dost thou , my good fellow ?
Clown : Truly , sir , the better for my foes and the worse for my friends .
DUKE ORSINO : Just the contrary ; the better for thy friends .
Clown : No , sir , the worse .
DUKE ORSINO : How can that be ?
Clown : Marry , sir , they praise me and make an ass of me ; now my foes tell me plainly I am an ass : so that by my foes , sir I profit in the knowledge of myself , and by my friends , I am abused : so that , conclusions to be as kisses , if your four negatives make your two affirmatives why then , the worse for my friends and the better for my foes .
DUKE ORSINO : Why , this is excellent .
Clown : By my troth , sir , no ; though it please you to be one of my friends .
DUKE ORSINO : Thou shalt not be the worse for me : there 's gold .
Clown : But that it would be double-dealing , sir , I would you could make it another .
DUKE ORSINO : O , you give me ill counsel .
Clown : Put your grace in your pocket , sir , for this once , and let your flesh and blood obey it .
DUKE ORSINO : Well , I will be so much a sinner , to be a double-dealer : there 's another .
Clown : Primo , secundo , tertio , is a good play ; and the old saying is , the third pays for all : the triplex , sir , is a good tripping measure ; or the bells of Saint Bennet , sir , may put you in mind ; one , two , three .
DUKE ORSINO : You can fool no more money out of me at this throw : if you will let your lady know I am here to speak with her , and bring her along with you , it may awake my bounty further .
Clown : Marry , sir , lullaby to your bounty till I come again . I go , sir ; but I would not have you to think that my desire of having is the sin of covetousness : but , as you say , sir , let your bounty take a nap , I will awake it anon . Exit
VIOLA : Here comes the man , sir , that did rescue me . Enter ANTONIO and Officers
DUKE ORSINO : That face of his I do remember well ; Yet , when I saw it last , it was besmear 'd As black as Vulcan in the smoke of war : A bawbling vessel was he captain of , For shallow draught and bulk unprizable ; With which such scathful grapple did he make With the most noble bottom of our fleet , That very envy and the tongue of loss Cried fame and honour on him . What 's the matter ?
First Officer : Orsino , this is that Antonio That took the Phoenix and her fraught from Candy ; And this is he that did the Tiger board , When your young nephew Titus lost his leg : Here in the streets , desperate of shame and state , In private brabble did we apprehend him .
VIOLA : He did me kindness , sir , drew on my side ; But in conclusion put strange speech upon me : I know not what ' twas but distraction .
DUKE ORSINO : Notable pirate ! thou salt-water thief ! What foolish boldness brought thee to their mercies , Whom thou , in terms so bloody and so dear , Hast made thine enemies ?
