TROILUS : Call here my varlet ; I 'll unarm again : Why should I war without the walls of Troy , That find such cruel battle here within ? Each Trojan that is master of his heart , Let him to field ; Troilus , alas ! hath none .
PANDARUS : Will this gear ne 'er be mended ?
TROILUS : The Greeks are strong and skilful to their strength , Fierce to their skill and to their fierceness valiant ; But I am weaker than a woman 's tear , Tamer than sleep , fonder than ignorance , Less valiant than the virgin in the night And skilless as unpractised infancy .
PANDARUS : Well , I have told you enough of this : for my part , I 'll not meddle nor make no further . He that will have a cake out of the wheat must needs tarry the grinding .
TROILUS : Have I not tarried ?
PANDARUS : Ay , the grinding ; but you must tarry the bolting .
TROILUS : Have I not tarried ?
PANDARUS : Ay , the bolting , but you must tarry the leavening .
TROILUS : Still have I tarried .
PANDARUS : Ay , to the leavening ; but here 's yet in the word ' hereafter ' the kneading , the making of the cake , the heating of the oven and the baking ; nay , you must stay the cooling too , or you may chance to burn your lips .
TROILUS : Patience herself , what goddess e 'er she be , Doth lesser blench at sufferance than I do . At Priam 's royal table do I sit ; And when fair Cressid comes into my thoughts , -- So , traitor ! ' When she comes ! ' When is she thence ?
PANDARUS : Well , she looked yesternight fairer than ever I saw her look , or any woman else .
TROILUS : I was about to tell thee : --when my heart , As wedged with a sigh , would rive in twain , Lest Hector or my father should perceive me , I have , as when the sun doth light a storm , Buried this sigh in wrinkle of a smile : But sorrow , that is couch 'd in seeming gladness , Is like that mirth fate turns to sudden sadness .
PANDARUS : An her hair were not somewhat darker than Helen 's-- well , go to--there were no more comparison between the women : but , for my part , she is my kinswoman ; I would not , as they term it , praise her : but I would somebody had heard her talk yesterday , as I did . I will not dispraise your sister Cassandra 's wit , but--
TROILUS : O Pandarus ! I tell thee , Pandarus , -- When I do tell thee , there my hopes lie drown 'd , Reply not in how many fathoms deep They lie indrench 'd . I tell thee I am mad In Cressid 's love : thou answer 'st ' she is fair ; ' Pour 'st in the open ulcer of my heart Her eyes , her hair , her cheek , her gait , her voice , Handlest in thy discourse , O , that her hand , In whose comparison all whites are ink , Writing their own reproach , to whose soft seizure The cygnet 's down is harsh and spirit of sense Hard as the palm of ploughman : this thou tell 'st me , As true thou tell 'st me , when I say I love her ; But , saying thus , instead of oil and balm , Thou lay 'st in every gash that love hath given me The knife that made it .
PANDARUS : I speak no more than truth .
TROILUS : Thou dost not speak so much .
PANDARUS : Faith , I 'll not meddle in 't . Let her be as she is : if she be fair , ' tis the better for her ; an she be not , she has the mends in her own hands .
TROILUS : Good Pandarus , how now , Pandarus !
PANDARUS : I have had my labour for my travail ; ill-thought on of her and ill-thought on of you ; gone between and between , but small thanks for my labour .
