ACHILLES : Good day , good day .
MENELAUS : How do you ? how do you ? Exit
ACHILLES : What , does the cuckold scorn me ?
AJAX : How now , Patroclus !
ACHILLES : Good morrow , Ajax .
AJAX : Ha ?
ACHILLES : Good morrow .
AJAX : Ay , and good next day too . Exit
ACHILLES : What mean these fellows ? Know they not Achilles ?
PATROCLUS : They pass by strangely : they were used to bend To send their smiles before them to Achilles ; To come as humbly as they used to creep To holy altars .
ACHILLES : What , am I poor of late ? ' Tis certain , greatness , once fall 'n out with fortune , Must fall out with men too : what the declined is He shall as soon read in the eyes of others As feel in his own fall ; for men , like butterflies , Show not their mealy wings but to the summer , And not a man , for being simply man , Hath any honour , but honour for those honours That are without him , as place , riches , favour , Prizes of accident as oft as merit : Which when they fall , as being slippery standers , The love that lean 'd on them as slippery too , Do one pluck down another and together Die in the fall . But ' tis not so with me : Fortune and I are friends : I do enjoy At ample point all that I did possess , Save these men 's looks ; who do , methinks , find out Something not worth in me such rich beholding As they have often given . Here is Ulysses ; I 'll interrupt his reading . How now Ulysses !
ULYSSES : Now , great Thetis ' son !
ACHILLES : What are you reading ?
ULYSSES : A strange fellow here Writes me : ' That man , how dearly ever parted , How much in having , or without or in , Cannot make boast to have that which he hath , Nor feels not what he owes , but by reflection ; As when his virtues shining upon others Heat them and they retort that heat again To the first giver . ' 
ACHILLES : This is not strange , Ulysses . The beauty that is borne here in the face The bearer knows not , but commends itself To others ' eyes ; nor doth the eye itself , That most pure spirit of sense , behold itself , Not going from itself ; but eye to eye opposed Salutes each other with each other 's form ; For speculation turns not to itself , Till it hath travell 'd and is mirror 'd there Where it may see itself . This is not strange at all .
