TROILUS : Fie , fie , my brother ! Weigh you the worth and honour of a king So great as our dread father in a scale Of common ounces ? will you with counters sum The past proportion of his infinite ? And buckle in a waist most fathomless With spans and inches so diminutive As fears and reasons ? fie , for godly shame !
HELENUS : No marvel , though you bite so sharp at reasons , You are so empty of them . Should not our father Bear the great sway of his affairs with reasons , Because your speech hath none that tells him so ?
TROILUS : You are for dreams and slumbers , brother priest ; You fur your gloves with reason . Here are your reasons : You know an enemy intends you harm ; You know a sword employ 'd is perilous , And reason flies the object of all harm : Who marvels then , when Helenus beholds A Grecian and his sword , if he do set The very wings of reason to his heels And fly like chidden Mercury from Jove , Or like a star disorb 'd ? Nay , if we talk of reason , Let 's shut our gates and sleep : manhood and honour Should have hare-hearts , would they but fat their thoughts With this cramm 'd reason : reason and respect Make livers pale and lustihood deject .
HECTOR : Brother , she is not worth what she doth cost The holding .
TROILUS : What is aught , but as ' tis valued ?
HECTOR : But value dwells not in particular will ; It holds his estimate and dignity As well wherein ' tis precious of itself As in the prizer : ' tis mad idolatry To make the service greater than the god And the will dotes that is attributive To what infectiously itself affects , Without some image of the affected merit .
TROILUS : I take to-day a wife , and my election Is led on in the conduct of my will ; My will enkindled by mine eyes and ears , Two traded pilots ' twixt the dangerous shores Of will and judgment : how may I avoid , Although my will distaste what it elected , The wife I chose ? there can be no evasion To blench from this and to stand firm by honour : We turn not back the silks upon the merchant , When we have soil 'd them , nor the remainder viands We do not throw in unrespective sieve , Because we now are full . It was thought meet Paris should do some vengeance on the Greeks : Your breath of full consent bellied his sails ; The seas and winds , old wranglers , took a truce And did him service : he touch 'd the ports desired , And for an old aunt whom the Greeks held captive , He brought a Grecian queen , whose youth and freshness Wrinkles Apollo 's , and makes stale the morning . Why keep we her ? the Grecians keep our aunt : Is she worth keeping ? why , she is a pearl , Whose price hath launch 'd above a thousand ships , And turn 'd crown 'd kings to merchants . If you 'll avouch ' twas wisdom Paris went-- As you must needs , for you all cried ' Go , go , ' -- If you 'll confess he brought home noble prize-- As you must needs , for you all clapp 'd your hands And cried ' Inestimable ! ' --why do you now The issue of your proper wisdoms rate , And do a deed that fortune never did , Beggar the estimation which you prized Richer than sea and land ? O , theft most base , That we have stol 'n what we do fear to keep ! But , thieves , unworthy of a thing so stol 'n , That in their country did them that disgrace , We fear to warrant in our native place !
CASSANDRA : Cry , Trojans , cry !
PRIAM : What noise ? what shriek is this ?
TROILUS : ' Tis our mad sister , I do know her voice .
CASSANDRA : Cry , Trojans !
HECTOR : It is Cassandra . Enter CASSANDRA , raving
