AGAMEMNON : Worthy of arms ! as welcome as to one That would be rid of such an enemy ; But that 's no welcome : understand more clear , What 's past and what 's to come is strew 'd with husks And formless ruin of oblivion ; But in this extant moment , faith and troth , Strain 'd purely from all hollow bias-drawing , Bids thee , with most divine integrity , From heart of very heart , great Hector , welcome .
HECTOR : I thank thee , most imperious Agamemnon .
AGAMEMNON : My well-famed lord of Troy , no less to you .
MENELAUS : Let me confirm my princely brother 's greeting : You brace of warlike brothers , welcome hither .
HECTOR : Who must we answer ?
AENEAS : The noble Menelaus .
HECTOR : O , you , my lord ? by Mars his gauntlet , thanks ! Mock not , that I affect the untraded oath ; Your quondam wife swears still by Venus ' glove : She 's well , but bade me not commend her to you .
MENELAUS : Name her not now , sir ; she 's a deadly theme .
HECTOR : O , pardon ; I offend .
NESTOR : I have , thou gallant Trojan , seen thee oft Labouring for destiny make cruel way Through ranks of Greekish youth , and I have seen thee , As hot as Perseus , spur thy Phrygian steed , Despising many forfeits and subduements , When thou hast hung thy advanced sword i ' the air , Not letting it decline on the declined , That I have said to some my standers by ' Lo , Jupiter is yonder , dealing life ! ' And I have seen thee pause and take thy breath , When that a ring of Greeks have hemm 'd thee in , Like an Olympian wrestling : this have I seen ; But this thy countenance , still lock 'd in steel , I never saw till now . I knew thy grandsire , And once fought with him : he was a soldier good ; But , by great Mars , the captain of us all , Never saw like thee . Let an old man embrace thee ; And , worthy warrior , welcome to our tents .
AENEAS : ' Tis the old Nestor .
HECTOR : Let me embrace thee , good old chronicle , That hast so long walk 'd hand in hand with time : Most reverend Nestor , I am glad to clasp thee .
NESTOR : I would my arms could match thee in contention , As they contend with thee in courtesy .
HECTOR : I would they could .
NESTOR : Ha ! By this white beard , I 'ld fight with thee to-morrow . Well , welcome , welcome ! I have seen the time .
ULYSSES : I wonder now how yonder city stands When we have here her base and pillar by us .
HECTOR : I know your favour , Lord Ulysses , well . Ah , sir , there 's many a Greek and Trojan dead , Since first I saw yourself and Diomed In Ilion , on your Greekish embassy .
ULYSSES : Sir , I foretold you then what would ensue : My prophecy is but half his journey yet ; For yonder walls , that pertly front your town , Yond towers , whose wanton tops do buss the clouds , Must kiss their own feet .
HECTOR : I must not believe you : There they stand yet , and modestly I think , The fall of every Phrygian stone will cost A drop of Grecian blood : the end crowns all , And that old common arbitrator , Time , Will one day end it .
ULYSSES : So to him we leave it . Most gentle and most valiant Hector , welcome : After the general , I beseech you next To feast with me and see me at my tent .
ACHILLES : I shall forestall thee , Lord Ulysses , thou ! Now , Hector , I have fed mine eyes on thee ; I have with exact view perused thee , Hector , And quoted joint by joint .
HECTOR : Is this Achilles ?
ACHILLES : I am Achilles .
HECTOR : Stand fair , I pray thee : let me look on thee .
ACHILLES : Behold thy fill .
