AGAMEMNON : In second voice we 'll not be satisfied ; We come to speak with him . Ulysses , enter you . Exit ULYSSES
AJAX : What is he more than another ?
AGAMEMNON : No more than what he thinks he is .
AJAX : Is he so much ? Do you not think he thinks himself a better man than I am ?
AGAMEMNON : No question .
AJAX : Will you subscribe his thought , and say he is ?
AGAMEMNON : No , noble Ajax ; you are as strong , as valiant , as wise , no less noble , much more gentle , and altogether more tractable .
AJAX : Why should a man be proud ? How doth pride grow ? I know not what pride is .
AGAMEMNON : Your mind is the clearer , Ajax , and your virtues the fairer . He that is proud eats up himself : pride is his own glass , his own trumpet , his own chronicle ; and whatever praises itself but in the deed , devours the deed in the praise .
AJAX : I do hate a proud man , as I hate the engendering of toads .
NESTOR : Yet he loves himself : is 't not strange ? Aside Re-enter ULYSSES
ULYSSES : Achilles will not to the field to-morrow .
AGAMEMNON : What 's his excuse ?
ULYSSES : He doth rely on none , But carries on the stream of his dispose Without observance or respect of any , In will peculiar and in self-admission .
AGAMEMNON : Why will he not upon our fair request Untent his person and share the air with us ?
ULYSSES : Things small as nothing , for request 's sake only , He makes important : possess 'd he is with greatness , And speaks not to himself but with a pride That quarrels at self-breath : imagined worth Holds in his blood such swoln and hot discourse That ' twixt his mental and his active parts Kingdom 'd Achilles in commotion rages And batters down himself : what should I say ? He is so plaguy proud that the death-tokens of it Cry ' No recovery . ' 
AGAMEMNON : Let Ajax go to him . Dear lord , go you and greet him in his tent : ' Tis said he holds you well , and will be led At your request a little from himself .
ULYSSES : O Agamemnon , let it not be so ! We 'll consecrate the steps that Ajax makes When they go from Achilles : shall the proud lord That bastes his arrogance with his own seam And never suffers matter of the world Enter his thoughts , save such as do revolve And ruminate himself , shall he be worshipp 'd Of that we hold an idol more than he ? No , this thrice worthy and right valiant lord Must not so stale his palm , nobly acquired ; Nor , by my will , assubjugate his merit , As amply titled as Achilles is , By going to Achilles : That were to enlard his fat already pride And add more coals to Cancer when he burns With entertaining great Hyperion . This lord go to him ! Jupiter forbid , And say in thunder ' Achilles go to him . ' 
NESTOR : O , this is well ; he rubs the vein of him .
DIOMEDES : And how his silence drinks up this applause !
AJAX : If I go to him , with my armed fist I 'll pash him o 'er the face .
AGAMEMNON : O , no , you shall not go .
AJAX : An a ' be proud with me , I 'll pheeze his pride : Let me go to him .
ULYSSES : Not for the worth that hangs upon our quarrel .
AJAX : A paltry , insolent fellow !
NESTOR : How he describes himself !
AJAX : Can he not be sociable ?
ULYSSES : The raven chides blackness .
AJAX : I 'll let his humours blood .
AGAMEMNON : He will be the physician that should be the patient .
AJAX : An all men were o ' my mind , --
ULYSSES : Wit would be out of fashion .
AJAX : A ' should not bear it so , a ' should eat swords first : shall pride carry it ?
