ACHILLES : Thou art too brief : I will the second time , As I would buy thee , view thee limb by limb .
HECTOR : O , like a book of sport thou 'lt read me o 'er ; But there 's more in me than thou understand 'st . Why dost thou so oppress me with thine eye ?
ACHILLES : Tell me , you heavens , in which part of his body Shall I destroy him ? whether there , or there , or there ? That I may give the local wound a name And make distinct the very breach whereout Hector 's great spirit flew : answer me , heavens !
HECTOR : It would discredit the blest gods , proud man , To answer such a question : stand again : Think 'st thou to catch my life so pleasantly As to prenominate in nice conjecture Where thou wilt hit me dead ?
ACHILLES : I tell thee , yea .
HECTOR : Wert thou an oracle to tell me so , I 'd not believe thee . Henceforth guard thee well ; For I 'll not kill thee there , nor there , nor there ; But , by the forge that stithied Mars his helm , I 'll kill thee every where , yea , o 'er and o 'er . You wisest Grecians , pardon me this brag ; His insolence draws folly from my lips ; But I 'll endeavour deeds to match these words , Or may I never--
AJAX : Do not chafe thee , cousin : And you , Achilles , let these threats alone , Till accident or purpose bring you to 't : You may have every day enough of Hector If you have stomach ; the general state , I fear , Can scarce entreat you to be odd with him .
HECTOR : I pray you , let us see you in the field : We have had pelting wars , since you refused The Grecians ' cause .
ACHILLES : Dost thou entreat me , Hector ? To-morrow do I meet thee , fell as death ; To-night all friends .
HECTOR : Thy hand upon that match .
AGAMEMNON : First , all you peers of Greece , go to my tent ; There in the full convive we : afterwards , As Hector 's leisure and your bounties shall Concur together , severally entreat him . Beat loud the tabourines , let the trumpets blow , That this great soldier may his welcome know .
TROILUS : My Lord Ulysses , tell me , I beseech you , In what place of the field doth Calchas keep ?
ULYSSES : At Menelaus ' tent , most princely Troilus : There Diomed doth feast with him to-night ; Who neither looks upon the heaven nor earth , But gives all gaze and bent of amorous view On the fair Cressid .
TROILUS : Shall sweet lord , be bound to you so much , After we part from Agamemnon 's tent , To bring me thither ?
ULYSSES : You shall command me , sir . As gentle tell me , of what honour was This Cressida in Troy ? Had she no lover there That wails her absence ?
TROILUS : O , sir , to such as boasting show their scars A mock is due . Will you walk on , my lord ? She was beloved , she loved ; she is , and doth : But still sweet love is food for fortune 's tooth . Enter ACHILLES and PATROCLUS
ACHILLES : I 'll heat his blood with Greekish wine to-night , Which with my scimitar I 'll cool to-morrow . Patroclus , let us feast him to the height .
PATROCLUS : Here comes Thersites . Enter THERSITES
ACHILLES : How now , thou core of envy ! Thou crusty batch of nature , what 's the news ?
THERSITES : Why , thou picture of what thou seemest , and idol of idiot worshippers , here 's a letter for thee .
ACHILLES : From whence , fragment ?
THERSITES : Why , thou full dish of fool , from Troy .
PATROCLUS : Who keeps the tent now ?
THERSITES : The surgeon 's box , or the patient 's wound .
PATROCLUS : Well said , adversity ! and what need these tricks ?
