ACHILLES : My mind is troubled , like a fountain stirr 'd ; And I myself see not the bottom of it .
THERSITES : Would the fountain of your mind were clear again , that I might water an ass at it ! I had rather be a tick in a sheep than such a valiant ignorance . Exit Enter , from one side , AENEAS , and Servant with a torch ; from the other , PARIS , DEIPHOBUS , ANTENOR , DIOMEDES , and others , with torches
PARIS : See , ho ! who is that there ?
DEIPHOBUS : It is the Lord AEneas .
AENEAS : Is the prince there in person ? Had I so good occasion to lie long As you , prince Paris , nothing but heavenly business Should rob my bed-mate of my company .
DIOMEDES : That 's my mind too . Good morrow , Lord AEneas .
PARIS : A valiant Greek , AEneas , --take his hand , -- Witness the process of your speech , wherein You told how Diomed , a whole week by days , Did haunt you in the field .
AENEAS : Health to you , valiant sir , During all question of the gentle truce ; But when I meet you arm 'd , as black defiance As heart can think or courage execute .
DIOMEDES : The one and other Diomed embraces . Our bloods are now in calm ; and , so long , health ! But when contention and occasion meet , By Jove , I 'll play the hunter for thy life With all my force , pursuit and policy .
AENEAS : And thou shalt hunt a lion , that will fly With his face backward . In humane gentleness , Welcome to Troy ! now , by Anchises ' life , Welcome , indeed ! By Venus ' hand I swear , No man alive can love in such a sort The thing he means to kill more excellently .
DIOMEDES : We sympathize : Jove , let AEneas live , If to my sword his fate be not the glory , A thousand complete courses of the sun ! But , in mine emulous honour , let him die , With every joint a wound , and that to-morrow !
AENEAS : We know each other well .
DIOMEDES : We do ; and long to know each other worse .
PARIS : This is the most despiteful gentle greeting , The noblest hateful love , that e 'er I heard of . What business , lord , so early ?
AENEAS : I was sent for to the king ; but why , I know not .
PARIS : His purpose meets you : ' twas to bring this Greek To Calchas ' house , and there to render him , For the enfreed Antenor , the fair Cressid : Let 's have your company , or , if you please , Haste there before us : I constantly do think-- Or rather , call my thought a certain knowledge-- My brother Troilus lodges there to-night : Rouse him and give him note of our approach . With the whole quality wherefore : I fear We shall be much unwelcome .
AENEAS : That I assure you : Troilus had rather Troy were borne to Greece Than Cressid borne from Troy .
PARIS : There is no help ; The bitter disposition of the time Will have it so . On , lord ; we 'll follow you .
AENEAS : Good morrow , all . Exit with Servant
PARIS : And tell me , noble Diomed , faith , tell me true , Even in the soul of sound good-fellowship , Who , in your thoughts , merits fair Helen best , Myself or Menelaus ?
