ACHILLES : Derive this ; come .
THERSITES : Agamemnon is a fool to offer to command Achilles ; Achilles is a fool to be commanded of Agamemnon ; Thersites is a fool to serve such a fool , and Patroclus is a fool positive .
PATROCLUS : Why am I a fool ?
THERSITES : Make that demand of the prover . It suffices me thou art . Look you , who comes here ?
ACHILLES : Patroclus , I 'll speak with nobody . Come in with me , Thersites . Exit
THERSITES : Here is such patchery , such juggling and such knavery ! all the argument is a cuckold and a whore ; a good quarrel to draw emulous factions and bleed to death upon . Now , the dry serpigo on the subject ! and war and lechery confound all ! Exit Enter AGAMEMNON , ULYSSES , NESTOR , DIOMEDES , and AJAX
AGAMEMNON : Where is Achilles ?
PATROCLUS : Within his tent ; but ill disposed , my lord .
AGAMEMNON : Let it be known to him that we are here . He shent our messengers ; and we lay by Our appertainments , visiting of him : Let him be told so ; lest perchance he think We dare not move the question of our place , Or know not what we are .
PATROCLUS : I shall say so to him . Exit
ULYSSES : We saw him at the opening of his tent : He is not sick .
AJAX : Yes , lion-sick , sick of proud heart : you may call it melancholy , if you will favour the man ; but , by my head , ' tis pride : but why , why ? let him show us the cause . A word , my lord . Takes AGAMEMNON aside
NESTOR : What moves Ajax thus to bay at him ?
ULYSSES : Achilles hath inveigled his fool from him .
NESTOR : Who , Thersites ?
ULYSSES : He .
NESTOR : Then will Ajax lack matter , if he have lost his argument .
ULYSSES : No , you see , he is his argument that has his argument , Achilles .
NESTOR : All the better ; their fraction is more our wish than their faction : but it was a strong composure a fool could disunite .
ULYSSES : The amity that wisdom knits not , folly may easily untie . Here comes Patroclus . Re-enter PATROCLUS
NESTOR : No Achilles with him .
ULYSSES : The elephant hath joints , but none for courtesy : his legs are legs for necessity , not for flexure .
PATROCLUS : Achilles bids me say , he is much sorry , If any thing more than your sport and pleasure Did move your greatness and this noble state To call upon him ; he hopes it is no other But for your health and your digestion sake , And after-dinner 's breath .
AGAMEMNON : Hear you , Patroclus : We are too well acquainted with these answers : But his evasion , wing 'd thus swift with scorn , Cannot outfly our apprehensions . Much attribute he hath , and much the reason Why we ascribe it to him ; yet all his virtues , Not virtuously on his own part beheld , Do in our eyes begin to lose their gloss , Yea , like fair fruit in an unwholesome dish , Are like to rot untasted . Go and tell him , We come to speak with him ; and you shall not sin , If you do say we think him over-proud And under-honest , in self-assumption greater Than in the note of judgment ; and worthier than himself Here tend the savage strangeness he puts on , Disguise the holy strength of their command , And underwrite in an observing kind His humorous predominance ; yea , watch His pettish lunes , his ebbs , his flows , as if The passage and whole carriage of this action Rode on his tide . Go tell him this , and add , That if he overhold his price so much , We 'll none of him ; but let him , like an engine Not portable , lie under this report : ' Bring action hither , this cannot go to war : A stirring dwarf we do allowance give Before a sleeping giant . ' Tell him so .
