DIOMEDES : Go , go , my servant , take thou Troilus ' horse ; Present the fair steed to my lady Cressid : Fellow , commend my service to her beauty ; Tell her I have chastised the amorous Trojan , And am her knight by proof .
Servant : I go , my lord . Exit Enter AGAMEMNON
AGAMEMNON : Renew , renew ! The fierce Polydamas Hath beat down Menon : bastard Margarelon Hath Doreus prisoner , And stands colossus-wise , waving his beam , Upon the pashed corses of the kings Epistrophus and Cedius : Polyxenes is slain , Amphimachus and Thoas deadly hurt , Patroclus ta 'en or slain , and Palamedes Sore hurt and bruised : the dreadful Sagittary Appals our numbers : haste we , Diomed , To reinforcement , or we perish all . Enter NESTOR
NESTOR : Go , bear Patroclus ' body to Achilles ; And bid the snail-paced Ajax arm for shame . There is a thousand Hectors in the field : Now here he fights on Galathe his horse , And there lacks work ; anon he 's there afoot , And there they fly or die , like scaled sculls Before the belching whale ; then is he yonder , And there the strawy Greeks , ripe for his edge , Fall down before him , like the mower 's swath : Here , there , and every where , he leaves and takes , Dexterity so obeying appetite That what he will he does , and does so much That proof is call 'd impossibility . Enter ULYSSES
ULYSSES : O , courage , courage , princes ! great Achilles Is arming , weeping , cursing , vowing vengeance : Patroclus ' wounds have roused his drowsy blood , Together with his mangled Myrmidons , That noseless , handless , hack 'd and chipp 'd , come to him , Crying on Hector . Ajax hath lost a friend And foams at mouth , and he is arm 'd and at it , Roaring for Troilus , who hath done to-day Mad and fantastic execution , Engaging and redeeming of himself With such a careless force and forceless care As if that luck , in very spite of cunning , Bade him win all . Enter AJAX
AJAX : Troilus ! thou coward Troilus ! Exit
DIOMEDES : Ay , there , there .
NESTOR : So , so , we draw together . Enter ACHILLES
ACHILLES : Where is this Hector ? Come , come , thou boy-queller , show thy face ; Know what it is to meet Achilles angry : Hector ? where 's Hector ? I will none but Hector . Enter AJAX
AJAX : Troilus , thou coward Troilus , show thy head ! Enter DIOMEDES
DIOMEDES : Troilus , I say ! where 's Troilus ?
AJAX : What wouldst thou ?
DIOMEDES : I would correct him .
AJAX : Were I the general , thou shouldst have my office Ere that correction . Troilus , I say ! what , Troilus ! Enter TROILUS
TROILUS : O traitor Diomed ! turn thy false face , thou traitor , And pay thy life thou owest me for my horse !
DIOMEDES : Ha , art thou there ?
AJAX : I 'll fight with him alone : stand , Diomed .
DIOMEDES : He is my prize ; I will not look upon .
TROILUS : Come , both you cogging Greeks ; have at you both ! Enter HECTOR
HECTOR : Yea , Troilus ? O , well fought , my youngest brother ! Enter ACHILLES
ACHILLES : Now do I see thee , ha ! have at thee , Hector !
HECTOR : Pause , if thou wilt .
ACHILLES : I do disdain thy courtesy , proud Trojan : Be happy that my arms are out of use : My rest and negligence befriends thee now , But thou anon shalt hear of me again ; Till when , go seek thy fortune . Exit
HECTOR : Fare thee well : I would have been much more a fresher man , Had I expected thee . How now , my brother ! Re-enter TROILUS
