AENEAS : Fair leave and large security . How may A stranger to those most imperial looks Know them from eyes of other mortals ?
AGAMEMNON : How !
AENEAS : Ay ; I ask , that I might waken reverence , And bid the cheek be ready with a blush Modest as morning when she coldly eyes The youthful Phoebus : Which is that god in office , guiding men ? Which is the high and mighty Agamemnon ?
AGAMEMNON : This Trojan scorns us ; or the men of Troy Are ceremonious courtiers .
AENEAS : Courtiers as free , as debonair , unarm 'd , As bending angels ; that 's their fame in peace : But when they would seem soldiers , they have galls , Good arms , strong joints , true swords ; and , Jove 's accord , Nothing so full of heart . But peace , AEneas , Peace , Trojan ; lay thy finger on thy lips ! The worthiness of praise distains his worth , If that the praised himself bring the praise forth : But what the repining enemy commends , That breath fame blows ; that praise , sole sure , transcends .
AGAMEMNON : Sir , you of Troy , call you yourself AEneas ?
AENEAS : Ay , Greek , that is my name .
AGAMEMNON : What 's your affair I pray you ?
AENEAS : Sir , pardon ; ' tis for Agamemnon 's ears .
AGAMEMNON : He hears naught privately that comes from Troy .
AENEAS : Nor I from Troy come not to whisper him : I bring a trumpet to awake his ear , To set his sense on the attentive bent , And then to speak .
AGAMEMNON : Speak frankly as the wind ; It is not Agamemnon 's sleeping hour : That thou shalt know . Trojan , he is awake , He tells thee so himself .
AENEAS : Trumpet , blow loud , Send thy brass voice through all these lazy tents ; And every Greek of mettle , let him know , What Troy means fairly shall be spoke aloud . Trumpet sounds We have , great Agamemnon , here in Troy A prince call 'd Hector , --Priam is his father , -- Who in this dull and long-continued truce Is rusty grown : he bade me take a trumpet , And to this purpose speak . Kings , princes , lords ! If there be one among the fair 'st of Greece That holds his honour higher than his ease , That seeks his praise more than he fears his peril , That knows his valour , and knows not his fear , That loves his mistress more than in confession , With truant vows to her own lips he loves , And dare avow her beauty and her worth In other arms than hers , --to him this challenge . Hector , in view of Trojans and of Greeks , Shall make it good , or do his best to do it , He hath a lady , wiser , fairer , truer , Than ever Greek did compass in his arms , And will to-morrow with his trumpet call Midway between your tents and walls of Troy , To rouse a Grecian that is true in love : If any come , Hector shall honour him ; If none , he 'll say in Troy when he retires , The Grecian dames are sunburnt and not worth The splinter of a lance . Even so much .
AGAMEMNON : This shall be told our lovers , Lord AEneas ; If none of them have soul in such a kind , We left them all at home : but we are soldiers ; And may that soldier a mere recreant prove , That means not , hath not , or is not in love ! If then one is , or hath , or means to be , That one meets Hector ; if none else , I am he .
