HECTOR : Peace , sister , peace !
CASSANDRA : Virgins and boys , mid-age and wrinkled eld , Soft infancy , that nothing canst but cry , Add to my clamours ! let us pay betimes A moiety of that mass of moan to come . Cry , Trojans , cry ! practise your eyes with tears ! Troy must not be , nor goodly Ilion stand ; Our firebrand brother , Paris , burns us all . Cry , Trojans , cry ! a Helen and a woe : Cry , cry ! Troy burns , or else let Helen go . Exit
HECTOR : Now , youthful Troilus , do not these high strains Of divination in our sister work Some touches of remorse ? or is your blood So madly hot that no discourse of reason , Nor fear of bad success in a bad cause , Can qualify the same ?
TROILUS : Why , brother Hector , We may not think the justness of each act Such and no other than event doth form it , Nor once deject the courage of our minds , Because Cassandra 's mad : her brain-sick raptures Cannot distaste the goodness of a quarrel Which hath our several honours all engaged To make it gracious . For my private part , I am no more touch 'd than all Priam 's sons : And Jove forbid there should be done amongst us Such things as might offend the weakest spleen To fight for and maintain !
PARIS : Else might the world convince of levity As well my undertakings as your counsels : But I attest the gods , your full consent Gave wings to my propension and cut off All fears attending on so dire a project . For what , alas , can these my single arms ? What Propugnation is in one man 's valour , To stand the push and enmity of those This quarrel would excite ? Yet , I protest , Were I alone to pass the difficulties And had as ample power as I have will , Paris should ne 'er retract what he hath done , Nor faint in the pursuit .
PRIAM : Paris , you speak Like one besotted on your sweet delights : You have the honey still , but these the gall ; So to be valiant is no praise at all .
PARIS : Sir , I propose not merely to myself The pleasures such a beauty brings with it ; But I would have the soil of her fair rape Wiped off , in honourable keeping her . What treason were it to the ransack 'd queen , Disgrace to your great worths and shame to me , Now to deliver her possession up On terms of base compulsion ! Can it be That so degenerate a strain as this Should once set footing in your generous bosoms ? There 's not the meanest spirit on our party Without a heart to dare or sword to draw When Helen is defended , nor none so noble Whose life were ill bestow 'd or death unfamed Where Helen is the subject ; then , I say , Well may we fight for her whom , we know well , The world 's large spaces cannot parallel .
