AGAMEMNON : The nature of the sickness found , Ulysses , What is the remedy ?
ULYSSES : The great Achilles , whom opinion crowns The sinew and the forehand of our host , Having his ear full of his airy fame , Grows dainty of his worth , and in his tent Lies mocking our designs : with him Patroclus Upon a lazy bed the livelong day Breaks scurril jests ; And with ridiculous and awkward action , Which , slanderer , he imitation calls , He pageants us . Sometime , great Agamemnon , Thy topless deputation he puts on , And , like a strutting player , whose conceit Lies in his hamstring , and doth think it rich To hear the wooden dialogue and sound ' Twixt his stretch 'd footing and the scaffoldage , -- Such to-be-pitied and o 'er-wrested seeming He acts thy greatness in : and when he speaks , ' Tis like a chime a-mending ; with terms unsquared , Which , from the tongue of roaring Typhon dropp 'd Would seem hyperboles . At this fusty stuff The large Achilles , on his press 'd bed lolling , From his deep chest laughs out a loud applause ; Cries ' Excellent ! ' tis Agamemnon just . Now play me Nestor ; hem , and stroke thy beard , As he being drest to some oration . ' That 's done , as near as the extremest ends Of parallels , as like as Vulcan and his wife : Yet god Achilles still cries ' Excellent ! ' Tis Nestor right . Now play him me , Patroclus , Arming to answer in a night alarm . ' And then , forsooth , the faint defects of age Must be the scene of mirth ; to cough and spit , And , with a palsy-fumbling on his gorget , Shake in and out the rivet : and at this sport Sir Valour dies ; cries ' O , enough , Patroclus ; Or give me ribs of steel ! I shall split all In pleasure of my spleen . ' And in this fashion , All our abilities , gifts , natures , shapes , Severals and generals of grace exact , Achievements , plots , orders , preventions , Excitements to the field , or speech for truce , Success or loss , what is or is not , serves As stuff for these two to make paradoxes .
NESTOR : And in the imitation of these twain-- Who , as Ulysses says , opinion crowns With an imperial voice--many are infect . Ajax is grown self-will 'd , and bears his head In such a rein , in full as proud a place As broad Achilles ; keeps his tent like him ; Makes factious feasts ; rails on our state of war , Bold as an oracle , and sets Thersites , A slave whose gall coins slanders like a mint , To match us in comparisons with dirt , To weaken and discredit our exposure , How rank soever rounded in with danger .
ULYSSES : They tax our policy , and call it cowardice , Count wisdom as no member of the war , Forestall prescience , and esteem no act But that of hand : the still and mental parts , That do contrive how many hands shall strike , When fitness calls them on , and know by measure Of their observant toil the enemies ' weight , -- Why , this hath not a finger 's dignity : They call this bed-work , mappery , closet-war ; So that the ram that batters down the wall , For the great swing and rudeness of his poise , They place before his hand that made the engine , Or those that with the fineness of their souls By reason guide his execution .
NESTOR : Let this be granted , and Achilles ' horse Makes many Thetis ' sons . A tucket
AGAMEMNON : What trumpet ? look , Menelaus .
MENELAUS : From Troy . Enter AENEAS
AGAMEMNON : What would you ' fore our tent ?
AENEAS : Is this great Agamemnon 's tent , I pray you ?
AGAMEMNON : Even this .
AENEAS : May one , that is a herald and a prince , Do a fair message to his kingly ears ?
