PANDARUS : Love ! ay , that it shall , i ' faith .
PARIS : Ay , good now , love , love , nothing but love .
PANDARUS : In good troth , it begins so . Sings Love , love , nothing but love , still more ! For , O , love 's bow Shoots buck and doe : The shaft confounds , Not that it wounds , But tickles still the sore . These lovers cry Oh ! oh ! they die ! Yet that which seems the wound to kill , Doth turn oh ! oh ! to ha ! ha ! he ! So dying love lives still : Oh ! oh ! a while , but ha ! ha ! ha ! Oh ! oh ! groans out for ha ! ha ! ha ! Heigh-ho !
HELEN : In love , i ' faith , to the very tip of the nose .
PARIS : He eats nothing but doves , love , and that breeds hot blood , and hot blood begets hot thoughts , and hot thoughts beget hot deeds , and hot deeds is love .
PANDARUS : Is this the generation of love ? hot blood , hot thoughts , and hot deeds ? Why , they are vipers : is love a generation of vipers ? Sweet lord , who 's a-field to-day ?
PARIS : Hector , Deiphobus , Helenus , Antenor , and all the gallantry of Troy : I would fain have armed to-day , but my Nell would not have it so . How chance my brother Troilus went not ?
HELEN : He hangs the lip at something : you know all , Lord Pandarus .
PANDARUS : Not I , honey-sweet queen . I long to hear how they sped to-day . You 'll remember your brother 's excuse ?
PARIS : To a hair .
PANDARUS : Farewell , sweet queen .
HELEN : Commend me to your niece .
PANDARUS : I will , sweet queen . Exit A retreat sounded
PARIS : They 're come from field : let us to Priam 's hall , To greet the warriors . Sweet Helen , I must woo you To help unarm our Hector : his stubborn buckles , With these your white enchanting fingers touch 'd , Shall more obey than to the edge of steel Or force of Greekish sinews ; you shall do more Than all the island kings , --disarm great Hector .
HELEN : ' Twill make us proud to be his servant , Paris ; Yea , what he shall receive of us in duty Gives us more palm in beauty than we have , Yea , overshines ourself .
PARIS : Sweet , above thought I love thee . Enter PANDARUS and Troilus 's Boy , meeting
PANDARUS : How now ! where 's thy master ? at my cousin Cressida 's ?
Boy : No , sir ; he stays for you to conduct him thither .
PANDARUS : O , here he comes . Enter TROILUS How now , how now !
TROILUS : Sirrah , walk off . Exit Boy
PANDARUS : Have you seen my cousin ?
TROILUS : No , Pandarus : I stalk about her door , Like a strange soul upon the Stygian banks Staying for waftage . O , be thou my Charon , And give me swift transportance to those fields Where I may wallow in the lily-beds Proposed for the deserver ! O gentle Pandarus , From Cupid 's shoulder pluck his painted wings And fly with me to Cressid !
PANDARUS : Walk here i ' the orchard , I 'll bring her straight . Exit
TROILUS : I am giddy ; expectation whirls me round . The imaginary relish is so sweet That it enchants my sense : what will it be , When that the watery palate tastes indeed Love 's thrice repured nectar ? death , I fear me , Swooning destruction , or some joy too fine , Too subtle-potent , tuned too sharp in sweetness , For the capacity of my ruder powers : I fear it much ; and I do fear besides , That I shall lose distinction in my joys ; As doth a battle , when they charge on heaps The enemy flying . Re-enter PANDARUS
