ACHILLES : I do believe it ; for they pass 'd by me As misers do by beggars , neither gave to me Good word nor look : what , are my deeds forgot ?
ULYSSES : Time hath , my lord , a wallet at his back , Wherein he puts alms for oblivion , A great-sized monster of ingratitudes : Those scraps are good deeds past ; which are devour 'd As fast as they are made , forgot as soon As done : perseverance , dear my lord , Keeps honour bright : to have done is to hang Quite out of fashion , like a rusty mail In monumental mockery . Take the instant way ; For honour travels in a strait so narrow , Where one but goes abreast : keep then the path ; For emulation hath a thousand sons That one by one pursue : if you give way , Or hedge aside from the direct forthright , Like to an enter 'd tide , they all rush by And leave you hindmost ; Or like a gallant horse fall 'n in first rank , Lie there for pavement to the abject rear , O 'er-run and trampled on : then what they do in present , Though less than yours in past , must o 'ertop yours ; For time is like a fashionable host That slightly shakes his parting guest by the hand , And with his arms outstretch 'd , as he would fly , Grasps in the comer : welcome ever smiles , And farewell goes out sighing . O , let not virtue seek Remuneration for the thing it was ; For beauty , wit , High birth , vigour of bone , desert in service , Love , friendship , charity , are subjects all To envious and calumniating time . One touch of nature makes the whole world kin , That all with one consent praise new-born gawds , Though they are made and moulded of things past , And give to dust that is a little gilt More laud than gilt o 'er-dusted . The present eye praises the present object . Then marvel not , thou great and complete man , That all the Greeks begin to worship Ajax ; Since things in motion sooner catch the eye Than what not stirs . The cry went once on thee , And still it might , and yet it may again , If thou wouldst not entomb thyself alive And case thy reputation in thy tent ; Whose glorious deeds , but in these fields of late , Made emulous missions ' mongst the gods themselves And drave great Mars to faction .
ACHILLES : Of this my privacy I have strong reasons .
ULYSSES : But ' gainst your privacy The reasons are more potent and heroical : ' Tis known , Achilles , that you are in love With one of Priam 's daughters .
ACHILLES : Ha ! known !
ULYSSES : Is that a wonder ? The providence that 's in a watchful state Knows almost every grain of Plutus ' gold , Finds bottom in the uncomprehensive deeps , Keeps place with thought and almost , like the gods , Does thoughts unveil in their dumb cradles . There is a mystery--with whom relation Durst never meddle--in the soul of state ; Which hath an operation more divine Than breath or pen can give expressure to : All the commerce that you have had with Troy As perfectly is ours as yours , my lord ; And better would it fit Achilles much To throw down Hector than Polyxena : But it must grieve young Pyrrhus now at home , When fame shall in our islands sound her trump , And all the Greekish girls shall tripping sing , ' Great Hector 's sister did Achilles win , But our great Ajax bravely beat down him . ' Farewell , my lord : I as your lover speak ; The fool slides o 'er the ice that you should break . Exit
