CRESSIDA : Do you think I will ?
TROILUS : No . But something may be done that we will not : And sometimes we are devils to ourselves , When we will tempt the frailty of our powers , Presuming on their changeful potency .
AENEAS : Nay , good my lord , --
TROILUS : Come , kiss ; and let us part .
PARIS : Brother Troilus !
TROILUS : Good brother , come you hither ; And bring AEneas and the Grecian with you .
CRESSIDA : My lord , will you be true ?
TROILUS : Who , I ? alas , it is my vice , my fault : Whiles others fish with craft for great opinion , I with great truth catch mere simplicity ; Whilst some with cunning gild their copper crowns , With truth and plainness I do wear mine bare . Fear not my truth : the moral of my wit Is ' plain and true ; ' there 's all the reach of it . Enter AENEAS , PARIS , ANTENOR , DEIPHOBUS , and DIOMEDES Welcome , Sir Diomed ! here is the lady Which for Antenor we deliver you : At the port , lord , I 'll give her to thy hand , And by the way possess thee what she is . Entreat her fair ; and , by my soul , fair Greek , If e 'er thou stand at mercy of my sword , Name Cressida and thy life shall be as safe As Priam is in Ilion .
DIOMEDES : Fair Lady Cressid , So please you , save the thanks this prince expects : The lustre in your eye , heaven in your cheek , Pleads your fair usage ; and to Diomed You shall be mistress , and command him wholly .
TROILUS : Grecian , thou dost not use me courteously , To shame the zeal of my petition to thee In praising her : I tell thee , lord of Greece , She is as far high-soaring o 'er thy praises As thou unworthy to be call 'd her servant . I charge thee use her well , even for my charge ; For , by the dreadful Pluto , if thou dost not , Though the great bulk Achilles be thy guard , I 'll cut thy throat .
DIOMEDES : O , be not moved , Prince Troilus : Let me be privileged by my place and message , To be a speaker free ; when I am hence I 'll answer to my lust : and know you , lord , I 'll nothing do on charge : to her own worth She shall be prized ; but that you say ' be 't so , ' I 'll speak it in my spirit and honour , ' no . ' 
TROILUS : Come , to the port . I 'll tell thee , Diomed , This brave shall oft make thee to hide thy head . Lady , give me your hand , and , as we walk , To our own selves bend we our needful talk . Trumpet within
PARIS : Hark ! Hector 's trumpet .
AENEAS : How have we spent this morning ! The prince must think me tardy and remiss , That sore to ride before him to the field .
PARIS : ' Tis Troilus ' fault : come , come , to field with him .
DEIPHOBUS : Let us make ready straight .
AENEAS : Yea , with a bridegroom 's fresh alacrity , Let us address to tend on Hector 's heels : The glory of our Troy doth this day lie On his fair worth and single chivalry . Enter AJAX , armed ; AGAMEMNON , ACHILLES , PATROCLUS , MENELAUS , ULYSSES , NESTOR , and others
AGAMEMNON : Here art thou in appointment fresh and fair , Anticipating time with starting courage . Give with thy trumpet a loud note to Troy , Thou dreadful Ajax ; that the appalled air May pierce the head of the great combatant And hale him hither .
AJAX : Thou , trumpet , there 's my purse . Now crack thy lungs , and split thy brazen pipe : Blow , villain , till thy sphered bias cheek Outswell the colic of puff 'd Aquilon : Come , stretch thy chest and let thy eyes spout blood ; Thou blow 'st for Hector . Trumpet sounds
ULYSSES : No trumpet answers .
