PANDARUS : Nay , I 'll give my word for her too : our kindred , though they be long ere they are wooed , they are constant being won : they are burs , I can tell you ; they 'll stick where they are thrown .
CRESSIDA : Boldness comes to me now , and brings me heart . Prince Troilus , I have loved you night and day For many weary months .
TROILUS : Why was my Cressid then so hard to win ?
CRESSIDA : Hard to seem won : but I was won , my lord , With the first glance that ever--pardon me-- If I confess much , you will play the tyrant . I love you now ; but not , till now , so much But I might master it : in faith , I lie ; My thoughts were like unbridled children , grown Too headstrong for their mother . See , we fools ! Why have I blabb 'd ? who shall be true to us , When we are so unsecret to ourselves ? But , though I loved you well , I woo 'd you not ; And yet , good faith , I wish 'd myself a man , Or that we women had men 's privilege Of speaking first . Sweet , bid me hold my tongue , For in this rapture I shall surely speak The thing I shall repent . See , see , your silence , Cunning in dumbness , from my weakness draws My very soul of counsel ! stop my mouth .
TROILUS : And shall , albeit sweet music issues thence .
PANDARUS : Pretty , i ' faith .
CRESSIDA : My lord , I do beseech you , pardon me ; ' Twas not my purpose , thus to beg a kiss : I am ashamed . O heavens ! what have I done ? For this time will I take my leave , my lord .
TROILUS : Your leave , sweet Cressid !
PANDARUS : Leave ! an you take leave till to-morrow morning , --
CRESSIDA : Pray you , content you .
TROILUS : What offends you , lady ?
CRESSIDA : Sir , mine own company .
TROILUS : You cannot shun Yourself .
CRESSIDA : Let me go and try : I have a kind of self resides with you ; But an unkind self , that itself will leave , To be another 's fool . I would be gone : Where is my wit ? I know not what I speak .
TROILUS : Well know they what they speak that speak so wisely .
CRESSIDA : Perchance , my lord , I show more craft than love ; And fell so roundly to a large confession , To angle for your thoughts : but you are wise , Or else you love not , for to be wise and love Exceeds man 's might ; that dwells with gods above .
TROILUS : O that I thought it could be in a woman-- As , if it can , I will presume in you-- To feed for aye her ramp and flames of love ; To keep her constancy in plight and youth , Outliving beauty 's outward , with a mind That doth renew swifter than blood decays ! Or that persuasion could but thus convince me , That my integrity and truth to you Might be affronted with the match and weight Of such a winnow 'd purity in love ; How were I then uplifted ! but , alas ! I am as true as truth 's simplicity And simpler than the infancy of truth .
CRESSIDA : In that I 'll war with you .
TROILUS : O virtuous fight , When right with right wars who shall be most right ! True swains in love shall in the world to come Approve their truths by Troilus : when their rhymes , Full of protest , of oath and big compare , Want similes , truth tired with iteration , As true as steel , as plantage to the moon , As sun to day , as turtle to her mate , As iron to adamant , as earth to the centre , Yet , after all comparisons of truth , As truth 's authentic author to be cited , ' As true as Troilus ' shall crown up the verse , And sanctify the numbers .
