ULYSSES : I cannot conjure , Trojan .
TROILUS : She was not , sure .
ULYSSES : Most sure she was .
TROILUS : Why , my negation hath no taste of madness .
ULYSSES : Nor mine , my lord : Cressid was here but now .
TROILUS : Let it not be believed for womanhood ! Think , we had mothers ; do not give advantage To stubborn critics , apt , without a theme , For depravation , to square the general sex By Cressid 's rule : rather think this not Cressid .
ULYSSES : What hath she done , prince , that can soil our mothers ?
TROILUS : Nothing at all , unless that this were she .
THERSITES : Will he swagger himself out on 's own eyes ?
TROILUS : This she ? no , this is Diomed 's Cressida : If beauty have a soul , this is not she ; If souls guide vows , if vows be sanctimonies , If sanctimony be the gods ' delight , If there be rule in unity itself , This is not she . O madness of discourse , That cause sets up with and against itself ! Bi-fold authority ! where reason can revolt Without perdition , and loss assume all reason Without revolt : this is , and is not , Cressid . Within my soul there doth conduce a fight Of this strange nature that a thing inseparate Divides more wider than the sky and earth , And yet the spacious breadth of this division Admits no orifex for a point as subtle As Ariachne 's broken woof to enter . Instance , O instance ! strong as Pluto 's gates ; Cressid is mine , tied with the bonds of heaven : Instance , O instance ! strong as heaven itself ; The bonds of heaven are slipp 'd , dissolved , and loosed ; And with another knot , five-finger-tied , The fractions of her faith , orts of her love , The fragments , scraps , the bits and greasy relics Of her o 'er-eaten faith , are bound to Diomed .
ULYSSES : May worthy Troilus be half attach 'd With that which here his passion doth express ?
TROILUS : Ay , Greek ; and that shall be divulged well In characters as red as Mars his heart Inflamed with Venus : never did young man fancy With so eternal and so fix 'd a soul . Hark , Greek : as much as I do Cressid love , So much by weight hate I her Diomed : That sleeve is mine that he 'll bear on his helm ; Were it a casque composed by Vulcan 's skill , My sword should bite it : not the dreadful spout Which shipmen do the hurricano call , Constringed in mass by the almighty sun , Shall dizzy with more clamour Neptune 's ear In his descent than shall my prompted sword Falling on Diomed .
THERSITES : He 'll tickle it for his concupy .
TROILUS : O Cressid ! O false Cressid ! false , false , false ! Let all untruths stand by thy stained name , And they 'll seem glorious .
ULYSSES : O , contain yourself Your passion draws ears hither . Enter AENEAS
AENEAS : I have been seeking you this hour , my lord : Hector , by this , is arming him in Troy ; Ajax , your guard , stays to conduct you home .
TROILUS : Have with you , prince . My courteous lord , adieu . Farewell , revolted fair ! and , Diomed , Stand fast , and wear a castle on thy head !
ULYSSES : I 'll bring you to the gates .
TROILUS : Accept distracted thanks .
THERSITES : Would I could meet that rogue Diomed ! I would croak like a raven ; I would bode , I would bode . Patroclus will give me any thing for the intelligence of this whore : the parrot will not do more for an almond than he for a commodious drab . Lechery , lechery ; still , wars and lechery ; nothing else holds fashion : a burning devil take them ! Exit Enter HECTOR and ANDROMACHE
ANDROMACHE : When was my lord so much ungently temper 'd , To stop his ears against admonishment ? Unarm , unarm , and do not fight to-day .
