ACHILLES : A maiden battle , then ? O , I perceive you . Re-enter DIOMEDES
AGAMEMNON : Here is Sir Diomed . Go , gentle knight , Stand by our Ajax : as you and Lord AEneas Consent upon the order of their fight , So be it ; either to the uttermost , Or else a breath : the combatants being kin Half stints their strife before their strokes begin . AJAX and HECTOR enter the lists
ULYSSES : They are opposed already .
AGAMEMNON : What Trojan is that same that looks so heavy ?
ULYSSES : The youngest son of Priam , a true knight , Not yet mature , yet matchless , firm of word , Speaking in deeds and deedless in his tongue ; Not soon provoked nor being provoked soon calm 'd : His heart and hand both open and both free ; For what he has he gives , what thinks he shows ; Yet gives he not till judgment guide his bounty , Nor dignifies an impure thought with breath ; Manly as Hector , but more dangerous ; For Hector in his blaze of wrath subscribes To tender objects , but he in heat of action Is more vindicative than jealous love : They call him Troilus , and on him erect A second hope , as fairly built as Hector . Thus says AEneas ; one that knows the youth Even to his inches , and with private soul Did in great Ilion thus translate him to me . Alarum . Hector and Ajax fight
AGAMEMNON : They are in action .
NESTOR : Now , Ajax , hold thine own !
TROILUS : Hector , thou sleep 'st ; Awake thee !
AGAMEMNON : His blows are well disposed : there , Ajax !
DIOMEDES : You must no more . Trumpets cease
AENEAS : Princes , enough , so please you .
AJAX : I am not warm yet ; let us fight again .
DIOMEDES : As Hector pleases .
HECTOR : Why , then will I no more : Thou art , great lord , my father 's sister 's son , A cousin-german to great Priam 's seed ; The obligation of our blood forbids A gory emulation ' twixt us twain : Were thy commixtion Greek and Trojan so That thou couldst say ' This hand is Grecian all , And this is Trojan ; the sinews of this leg All Greek , and this all Troy ; my mother 's blood Runs on the dexter cheek , and this sinister Bounds in my father 's ; ' by Jove multipotent , Thou shouldst not bear from me a Greekish member Wherein my sword had not impressure made Of our rank feud : but the just gods gainsay That any drop thou borrow 'dst from thy mother , My sacred aunt , should by my mortal sword Be drain 'd ! Let me embrace thee , Ajax : By him that thunders , thou hast lusty arms ; Hector would have them fall upon him thus : Cousin , all honour to thee !
AJAX : I thank thee , Hector Thou art too gentle and too free a man : I came to kill thee , cousin , and bear hence A great addition earned in thy death .
HECTOR : Not Neoptolemus so mirable , On whose bright crest Fame with her loud 'st Oyes Cries ' This is he , ' could promise to himself A thought of added honour torn from Hector .
AENEAS : There is expectance here from both the sides , What further you will do .
HECTOR : We 'll answer it ; The issue is embracement : Ajax , farewell .
AJAX : If I might in entreaties find success-- As seld I have the chance--I would desire My famous cousin to our Grecian tents .
DIOMEDES : ' Tis Agamemnon 's wish , and great Achilles Doth long to see unarm 'd the valiant Hector .
HECTOR : AEneas , call my brother Troilus to me , And signify this loving interview To the expecters of our Trojan part ; Desire them home . Give me thy hand , my cousin ; I will go eat with thee and see your knights .
AJAX : Great Agamemnon comes to meet us here .
