PANDARUS : Go to , a bargain made : seal it , seal it ; I 'll be the witness . Here I hold your hand , here my cousin 's . If ever you prove false one to another , since I have taken such pains to bring you together , let all pitiful goers-between be called to the world 's end after my name ; call them all Pandars ; let all constant men be Troiluses , all false women Cressids , and all brokers-between Pandars ! say , amen .
TROILUS : Amen .
CRESSIDA : Amen .
PANDARUS : Amen . Whereupon I will show you a chamber with a bed ; which bed , because it shall not speak of your pretty encounters , press it to death : away ! And Cupid grant all tongue-tied maidens here Bed , chamber , Pandar to provide this gear ! Enter AGAMEMNON , ULYSSES , DIOMEDES , NESTOR , AJAX , MENELAUS , and CALCHAS
CALCHAS : Now , princes , for the service I have done you , The advantage of the time prompts me aloud To call for recompense . Appear it to your mind That , through the sight I bear in things to love , I have abandon 'd Troy , left my possession , Incurr 'd a traitor 's name ; exposed myself , From certain and possess 'd conveniences , To doubtful fortunes ; sequestering from me all That time , acquaintance , custom and condition Made tame and most familiar to my nature , And here , to do you service , am become As new into the world , strange , unacquainted : I do beseech you , as in way of taste , To give me now a little benefit , Out of those many register 'd in promise , Which , you say , live to come in my behalf .
AGAMEMNON : What wouldst thou of us , Trojan ? make demand .
CALCHAS : You have a Trojan prisoner , call 'd Antenor , Yesterday took : Troy holds him very dear . Oft have you--often have you thanks therefore-- Desired my Cressid in right great exchange , Whom Troy hath still denied : but this Antenor , I know , is such a wrest in their affairs That their negotiations all must slack , Wanting his manage ; and they will almost Give us a prince of blood , a son of Priam , In change of him : let him be sent , great princes , And he shall buy my daughter ; and her presence Shall quite strike off all service I have done , In most accepted pain .
AGAMEMNON : Let Diomedes bear him , And bring us Cressid hither : Calchas shall have What he requests of us . Good Diomed , Furnish you fairly for this interchange : Withal bring word if Hector will to-morrow Be answer 'd in his challenge : Ajax is ready .
DIOMEDES : This shall I undertake ; and ' tis a burden Which I am proud to bear . Enter ACHILLES and PATROCLUS , before their tent
ULYSSES : Achilles stands i ' the entrance of his tent : Please it our general to pass strangely by him , As if he were forgot ; and , princes all , Lay negligent and loose regard upon him : I will come last . ' Tis like he 'll question me Why such unplausive eyes are bent on him : If so , I have derision medicinable , To use between your strangeness and his pride , Which his own will shall have desire to drink : It may be good : pride hath no other glass To show itself but pride , for supple knees Feed arrogance and are the proud man 's fees .
AGAMEMNON : We 'll execute your purpose , and put on A form of strangeness as we pass along : So do each lord , and either greet him not , Or else disdainfully , which shall shake him more Than if not look 'd on . I will lead the way .
ACHILLES : What , comes the general to speak with me ? You know my mind , I 'll fight no more ' gainst Troy .
AGAMEMNON : What says Achilles ? would he aught with us ?
NESTOR : Would you , my lord , aught with the general ?
ACHILLES : No .
NESTOR : Nothing , my lord .
