ULYSSES : Agamemnon , Thou great commander , nerve and bone of Greece , Heart of our numbers , soul and only spirit . In whom the tempers and the minds of all Should be shut up , hear what Ulysses speaks . Besides the applause and approbation To which , To AGAMEMNON most mighty for thy place and sway , To NESTOR And thou most reverend for thy stretch 'd-out life I give to both your speeches , which were such As Agamemnon and the hand of Greece Should hold up high in brass , and such again As venerable Nestor , hatch 'd in silver , Should with a bond of air , strong as the axle-tree On which heaven rides , knit all the Greekish ears To his experienced tongue , yet let it please both , Thou great , and wise , to hear Ulysses speak .
AGAMEMNON : Speak , prince of Ithaca ; and be 't of less expect That matter needless , of importless burden , Divide thy lips , than we are confident , When rank Thersites opes his mastic jaws , We shall hear music , wit and oracle .
ULYSSES : Troy , yet upon his basis , had been down , And the great Hector 's sword had lack 'd a master , But for these instances . The specialty of rule hath been neglected : And , look , how many Grecian tents do stand Hollow upon this plain , so many hollow factions . When that the general is not like the hive To whom the foragers shall all repair , What honey is expected ? Degree being vizarded , The unworthiest shows as fairly in the mask . The heavens themselves , the planets and this centre Observe degree , priority and place , Insisture , course , proportion , season , form , Office and custom , in all line of order ; And therefore is the glorious planet Sol In noble eminence enthroned and sphered Amidst the other ; whose medicinable eye Corrects the ill aspects of planets evil , And posts , like the commandment of a king , Sans cheque to good and bad : but when the planets In evil mixture to disorder wander , What plagues and what portents ! what mutiny ! What raging of the sea ! shaking of earth ! Commotion in the winds ! frights , changes , horrors , Divert and crack , rend and deracinate The unity and married calm of states Quite from their fixure ! O , when degree is shaked , Which is the ladder to all high designs , Then enterprise is sick ! How could communities , Degrees in schools and brotherhoods in cities , Peaceful commerce from dividable shores , The primogenitive and due of birth , Prerogative of age , crowns , sceptres , laurels , But by degree , stand in authentic place ? Take but degree away , untune that string , And , hark , what discord follows ! each thing meets In mere oppugnancy : the bounded waters Should lift their bosoms higher than the shores And make a sop of all this solid globe : Strength should be lord of imbecility , And the rude son should strike his father dead : Force should be right ; or rather , right and wrong , Between whose endless jar justice resides , Should lose their names , and so should justice too . Then every thing includes itself in power , Power into will , will into appetite ; And appetite , an universal wolf , So doubly seconded with will and power , Must make perforce an universal prey , And last eat up himself . Great Agamemnon , This chaos , when degree is suffocate , Follows the choking . And this neglection of degree it is That by a pace goes backward , with a purpose It hath to climb . The general 's disdain 'd By him one step below , he by the next , That next by him beneath ; so every step , Exampled by the first pace that is sick Of his superior , grows to an envious fever Of pale and bloodless emulation : And ' tis this fever that keeps Troy on foot , Not her own sinews . To end a tale of length , Troy in our weakness stands , not in her strength .
