CRESSIDA : Will he give you the nod ?
PANDARUS : You shall see .
CRESSIDA : If he do , the rich shall have more . HECTOR passes
PANDARUS : That 's Hector , that , that , look you , that ; there 's a fellow ! Go thy way , Hector ! There 's a brave man , niece . O brave Hector ! Look how he looks ! there 's a countenance ! is 't not a brave man ?
CRESSIDA : O , a brave man !
PANDARUS : Is a ' not ? it does a man 's heart good . Look you what hacks are on his helmet ! look you yonder , do you see ? look you there : there 's no jesting ; there 's laying on , take 't off who will , as they say : there be hacks !
CRESSIDA : Be those with swords ?
PANDARUS : Swords ! any thing , he cares not ; an the devil come to him , it 's all one : by God 's lid , it does one 's heart good . Yonder comes Paris , yonder comes Paris . PARIS passes Look ye yonder , niece ; is 't not a gallant man too , is 't not ? Why , this is brave now . Who said he came hurt home to-day ? he 's not hurt : why , this will do Helen 's heart good now , ha ! Would I could see Troilus now ! You shall see Troilus anon . HELENUS passes
CRESSIDA : Who 's that ?
PANDARUS : That 's Helenus . I marvel where Troilus is . That 's Helenus . I think he went not forth to-day . That 's Helenus .
CRESSIDA : Can Helenus fight , uncle ?
PANDARUS : Helenus ? no . Yes , he 'll fight indifferent well . I marvel where Troilus is . Hark ! do you not hear the people cry ' Troilus ' ? Helenus is a priest .
CRESSIDA : What sneaking fellow comes yonder ? TROILUS passes
PANDARUS : Where ? yonder ? that 's Deiphobus . ' Tis Troilus ! there 's a man , niece ! Hem ! Brave Troilus ! the prince of chivalry !
CRESSIDA : Peace , for shame , peace !
PANDARUS : Mark him ; note him . O brave Troilus ! Look well upon him , niece : look you how his sword is bloodied , and his helm more hacked than Hector 's , and how he looks , and how he goes ! O admirable youth ! he ne 'er saw three and twenty . Go thy way , Troilus , go thy way ! Had I a sister were a grace , or a daughter a goddess , he should take his choice . O admirable man ! Paris ? Paris is dirt to him ; and , I warrant , Helen , to change , would give an eye to boot .
CRESSIDA : Here come more . Forces pass
PANDARUS : Asses , fools , dolts ! chaff and bran , chaff and bran ! porridge after meat ! I could live and die i ' the eyes of Troilus . Ne 'er look , ne 'er look : the eagles are gone : crows and daws , crows and daws ! I had rather be such a man as Troilus than Agamemnon and all Greece .
CRESSIDA : There is among the Greeks Achilles , a better man than Troilus .
PANDARUS : Achilles ! a drayman , a porter , a very camel .
CRESSIDA : Well , well .
PANDARUS : ' Well , well ! ' why , have you any discretion ? have you any eyes ? Do you know what a man is ? Is not birth , beauty , good shape , discourse , manhood , learning , gentleness , virtue , youth , liberality , and such like , the spice and salt that season a man ?
CRESSIDA : Ay , a minced man : and then to be baked with no date in the pie , for then the man 's date 's out .
PANDARUS : You are such a woman ! one knows not at what ward you lie .
