TROILUS : Why , there you touch 'd the life of our design : Were it not glory that we more affected Than the performance of our heaving spleens , I would not wish a drop of Trojan blood Spent more in her defence . But , worthy Hector , She is a theme of honour and renown , A spur to valiant and magnanimous deeds , Whose present courage may beat down our foes , And fame in time to come canonize us ; For , I presume , brave Hector would not lose So rich advantage of a promised glory As smiles upon the forehead of this action For the wide world 's revenue .
HECTOR : I am yours , You valiant offspring of great Priamus . I have a roisting challenge sent amongst The dun and factious nobles of the Greeks Will strike amazement to their drowsy spirits : I was advertised their great general slept , Whilst emulation in the army crept : This , I presume , will wake him . Enter THERSITES , solus
THERSITES : How now , Thersites ! what lost in the labyrinth of thy fury ! Shall the elephant Ajax carry it thus ? He beats me , and I rail at him : O , worthy satisfaction ! would it were otherwise ; that I could beat him , whilst he railed at me . ' Sfoot , I 'll learn to conjure and raise devils , but I 'll see some issue of my spiteful execrations . Then there 's Achilles , a rare enginer ! If Troy be not taken till these two undermine it , the walls will stand till they fall of themselves . O thou great thunder-darter of Olympus , forget that thou art Jove , the king of gods and , Mercury , lose all the serpentine craft of thy caduceus , if ye take not that little , little less than little wit from them that they have ! which short-armed ignorance itself knows is so abundant scarce , it will not in circumvention deliver a fly from a spider , without drawing their massy irons and cutting the web . After this , the vengeance on the whole camp ! or rather , the bone-ache ! for that , methinks , is the curse dependent on those that war for a placket . I have said my prayers and devil Envy say Amen . What ho ! my Lord Achilles ! Enter PATROCLUS
PATROCLUS : Who 's there ? Thersites ! Good Thersites , come in and rail .
THERSITES : If I could have remembered a gilt counterfeit , thou wouldst not have slipped out of my contemplation : but it is no matter ; thyself upon thyself ! The common curse of mankind , folly and ignorance , be thine in great revenue ! heaven bless thee from a tutor , and discipline come not near thee ! Let thy blood be thy direction till thy death ! then if she that lays thee out says thou art a fair corse , I 'll be sworn and sworn upon 't she never shrouded any but lazars . Amen . Where 's Achilles ?
PATROCLUS : What , art thou devout ? wast thou in prayer ?
THERSITES : Ay : the heavens hear me ! Enter ACHILLES
ACHILLES : Who 's there ?
PATROCLUS : Thersites , my lord .
ACHILLES : Where , where ? Art thou come ? why , my cheese , my digestion , why hast thou not served thyself in to my table so many meals ? Come , what 's Agamemnon ?
THERSITES : Thy commander , Achilles . Then tell me , Patroclus , what 's Achilles ?
PATROCLUS : Thy lord , Thersites : then tell me , I pray thee , what 's thyself ?
THERSITES : Thy knower , Patroclus : then tell me , Patroclus , what art thou ?
PATROCLUS : Thou mayst tell that knowest .
ACHILLES : O , tell , tell .
THERSITES : I 'll decline the whole question . Agamemnon commands Achilles ; Achilles is my lord ; I am Patroclus ' knower , and Patroclus is a fool .
PATROCLUS : You rascal !
THERSITES : Peace , fool ! I have not done .
ACHILLES : He is a privileged man . Proceed , Thersites .
