AENEAS : Now heavens forbid such scarcity of youth !
ULYSSES : Amen .
AGAMEMNON : Fair Lord AEneas , let me touch your hand ; To our pavilion shall I lead you , sir . Achilles shall have word of this intent ; So shall each lord of Greece , from tent to tent : Yourself shall feast with us before you go And find the welcome of a noble foe .
ULYSSES : Nestor !
NESTOR : What says Ulysses ?
ULYSSES : I have a young conception in my brain ; Be you my time to bring it to some shape .
NESTOR : What is 't ?
ULYSSES : This ' tis : Blunt wedges rive hard knots : the seeded pride That hath to this maturity blown up In rank Achilles must or now be cropp 'd , Or , shedding , breed a nursery of like evil , To overbulk us all .
NESTOR : Well , and how ?
ULYSSES : This challenge that the gallant Hector sends , However it is spread in general name , Relates in purpose only to Achilles .
NESTOR : The purpose is perspicuous even as substance , Whose grossness little characters sum up : And , in the publication , make no strain , But that Achilles , were his brain as barren As banks of Libya , --though , Apollo knows , ' Tis dry enough , --will , with great speed of judgment , Ay , with celerity , find Hector 's purpose Pointing on him .
ULYSSES : And wake him to the answer , think you ?
NESTOR : Yes , ' tis most meet : whom may you else oppose , That can from Hector bring his honour off , If not Achilles ? Though 't be a sportful combat , Yet in the trial much opinion dwells ; For here the Trojans taste our dear 'st repute With their finest palate : and trust to me , Ulysses , Our imputation shall be oddly poised In this wild action ; for the success , Although particular , shall give a scantling Of good or bad unto the general ; And in such indexes , although small pricks To their subsequent volumes , there is seen The baby figure of the giant mass Of things to come at large . It is supposed He that meets Hector issues from our choice And choice , being mutual act of all our souls , Makes merit her election , and doth boil , As ' twere from us all , a man distill 'd Out of our virtues ; who miscarrying , What heart receives from hence the conquering part , To steel a strong opinion to themselves ? Which entertain 'd , limbs are his instruments , In no less working than are swords and bows Directive by the limbs .
ULYSSES : Give pardon to my speech : Therefore ' tis meet Achilles meet not Hector . Let us , like merchants , show our foulest wares , And think , perchance , they 'll sell ; if not , The lustre of the better yet to show , Shall show the better . Do not consent That ever Hector and Achilles meet ; For both our honour and our shame in this Are dogg 'd with two strange followers .
NESTOR : I see them not with my old eyes : what are they ?
