PANDARUS : Say one of your watches .
CRESSIDA : Nay , I 'll watch you for that ; and that 's one of the chiefest of them too : if I cannot ward what I would not have hit , I can watch you for telling how I took the blow ; unless it swell past hiding , and then it 's past watching .
PANDARUS : You are such another ! Enter Troilus 's Boy
Boy : Sir , my lord would instantly speak with you .
PANDARUS : Where ?
Boy : At your own house ; there he unarms him .
PANDARUS : Good boy , tell him I come . Exit boy I doubt he be hurt . Fare ye well , good niece .
CRESSIDA : Adieu , uncle .
PANDARUS : I 'll be with you , niece , by and by .
CRESSIDA : To bring , uncle ?
PANDARUS : Ay , a token from Troilus .
CRESSIDA : By the same token , you are a bawd . Exit PANDARUS Words , vows , gifts , tears , and love 's full sacrifice , He offers in another 's enterprise ; But more in Troilus thousand fold I see Than in the glass of Pandar 's praise may be ; Yet hold I off . Women are angels , wooing : Things won are done ; joy 's soul lies in the doing . That she beloved knows nought that knows not this : Men prize the thing ungain 'd more than it is : That she was never yet that ever knew Love got so sweet as when desire did sue . Therefore this maxim out of love I teach : Achievement is command ; ungain 'd , beseech : Then though my heart 's content firm love doth bear , Nothing of that shall from mine eyes appear . Sennet . Enter AGAMEMNON , NESTOR , ULYSSES , MENELAUS , and others
AGAMEMNON : Princes , What grief hath set the jaundice on your cheeks ? The ample proposition that hope makes In all designs begun on earth below Fails in the promised largeness : cheques and disasters Grow in the veins of actions highest rear 'd , As knots , by the conflux of meeting sap , Infect the sound pine and divert his grain Tortive and errant from his course of growth . Nor , princes , is it matter new to us That we come short of our suppose so far That after seven years ' siege yet Troy walls stand ; Sith every action that hath gone before , Whereof we have record , trial did draw Bias and thwart , not answering the aim , And that unbodied figure of the thought That gave 't surmised shape . Why then , you princes , Do you with cheeks abash 'd behold our works , And call them shames ? which are indeed nought else But the protractive trials of great Jove To find persistive constancy in men : The fineness of which metal is not found In fortune 's love ; for then the bold and coward , The wise and fool , the artist and unread , The hard and soft seem all affined and kin : But , in the wind and tempest of her frown , Distinction , with a broad and powerful fan , Puffing at all , winnows the light away ; And what hath mass or matter , by itself Lies rich in virtue and unmingled .
