PANDARUS : Here , here , here he comes . Enter TROILUS Ah , sweet ducks !
CRESSIDA : O Troilus ! Troilus ! Embracing him
PANDARUS : What a pair of spectacles is here ! Let me embrace too . ' O heart , ' as the goodly saying is , ' --O heart , heavy heart , Why sigh 'st thou without breaking ? where he answers again , ' Because thou canst not ease thy smart By friendship nor by speaking . ' There was never a truer rhyme . Let us cast away nothing , for we may live to have need of such a verse : we see it , we see it . How now , lambs ?
TROILUS : Cressid , I love thee in so strain 'd a purity , That the bless 'd gods , as angry with my fancy , More bright in zeal than the devotion which Cold lips blow to their deities , take thee from me .
CRESSIDA : Have the gods envy ?
PANDARUS : Ay , ay , ay , ay ; ' tis too plain a case .
CRESSIDA : And is it true that I must go from Troy ?
TROILUS : A hateful truth .
CRESSIDA : What , and from Troilus too ?
TROILUS : From Troy and Troilus .
CRESSIDA : Is it possible ?
TROILUS : And suddenly ; where injury of chance Puts back leave-taking , justles roughly by All time of pause , rudely beguiles our lips Of all rejoindure , forcibly prevents Our lock 'd embrasures , strangles our dear vows Even in the birth of our own labouring breath : We two , that with so many thousand sighs Did buy each other , must poorly sell ourselves With the rude brevity and discharge of one . Injurious time now with a robber 's haste Crams his rich thievery up , he knows not how : As many farewells as be stars in heaven , With distinct breath and consign 'd kisses to them , He fumbles up into a lose adieu , And scants us with a single famish 'd kiss , Distasted with the salt of broken tears .
AENEAS : My lord , is the lady ready ?
TROILUS : Hark ! you are call 'd : some say the Genius so Cries ' come ' to him that instantly must die . Bid them have patience ; she shall come anon .
PANDARUS : Where are my tears ? rain , to lay this wind , or my heart will be blown up by the root . Exit
CRESSIDA : I must then to the Grecians ?
TROILUS : No remedy .
CRESSIDA : A woful Cressid ' mongst the merry Greeks ! When shall we see again ?
TROILUS : Hear me , my love : be thou but true of heart , --
CRESSIDA : I true ! how now ! what wicked deem is this ?
TROILUS : Nay , we must use expostulation kindly , For it is parting from us : I speak not ' be thou true , ' as fearing thee , For I will throw my glove to Death himself , That there 's no maculation in thy heart : But ' be thou true , ' say I , to fashion in My sequent protestation ; be thou true , And I will see thee .
CRESSIDA : O , you shall be exposed , my lord , to dangers As infinite as imminent ! but I 'll be true .
TROILUS : And I 'll grow friend with danger . Wear this sleeve .
CRESSIDA : And you this glove . When shall I see you ?
TROILUS : I will corrupt the Grecian sentinels , To give thee nightly visitation . But yet be true .
CRESSIDA : O heavens ! ' be true ' again !
TROILUS : Hear while I speak it , love : The Grecian youths are full of quality ; They 're loving , well composed with gifts of nature , Flowing and swelling o 'er with arts and exercise : How novelty may move , and parts with person , Alas , a kind of godly jealousy-- Which , I beseech you , call a virtuous sin-- Makes me afeard .
CRESSIDA : O heavens ! you love me not .
