TROILUS : Even such a passion doth embrace my bosom : My heart beats thicker than a feverous pulse ; And all my powers do their bestowing lose , Like vassalage at unawares encountering The eye of majesty . Re-enter PANDARUS with CRESSIDA
PANDARUS : Come , come , what need you blush ? shame 's a baby . Here she is now : swear the oaths now to her that you have sworn to me . What , are you gone again ? you must be watched ere you be made tame , must you ? Come your ways , come your ways ; an you draw backward , we 'll put you i ' the fills . Why do you not speak to her ? Come , draw this curtain , and let 's see your picture . Alas the day , how loath you are to offend daylight ! an ' twere dark , you 'ld close sooner . So , so ; rub on , and kiss the mistress . How now ! a kiss in fee-farm ! build there , carpenter ; the air is sweet . Nay , you shall fight your hearts out ere I part you . The falcon as the tercel , for all the ducks i ' the river : go to , go to .
TROILUS : You have bereft me of all words , lady .
PANDARUS : Words pay no debts , give her deeds : but she 'll bereave you o ' the deeds too , if she call your activity in question . What , billing again ? Here 's ' In witness whereof the parties interchangeably ' -- Come in , come in : I 'll go get a fire . Exit
CRESSIDA : Will you walk in , my lord ?
TROILUS : O Cressida , how often have I wished me thus !
CRESSIDA : Wished , my lord ! The gods grant , --O my lord !
TROILUS : What should they grant ? what makes this pretty abruption ? What too curious dreg espies my sweet lady in the fountain of our love ?
CRESSIDA : More dregs than water , if my fears have eyes .
TROILUS : Fears make devils of cherubims ; they never see truly .
CRESSIDA : Blind fear , that seeing reason leads , finds safer footing than blind reason stumbling without fear : to fear the worst oft cures the worse .
TROILUS : O , let my lady apprehend no fear : in all Cupid 's pageant there is presented no monster .
CRESSIDA : Nor nothing monstrous neither ?
TROILUS : Nothing , but our undertakings ; when we vow to weep seas , live in fire , eat rocks , tame tigers ; thinking it harder for our mistress to devise imposition enough than for us to undergo any difficulty imposed . This is the monstruosity in love , lady , that the will is infinite and the execution confined , that the desire is boundless and the act a slave to limit .
CRESSIDA : They say all lovers swear more performance than they are able and yet reserve an ability that they never perform , vowing more than the perfection of ten and discharging less than the tenth part of one . They that have the voice of lions and the act of hares , are they not monsters ?
TROILUS : Are there such ? such are not we : praise us as we are tasted , allow us as we prove ; our head shall go bare till merit crown it : no perfection in reversion shall have a praise in present : we will not name desert before his birth , and , being born , his addition shall be humble . Few words to fair faith : Troilus shall be such to Cressid as what envy can say worst shall be a mock for his truth , and what truth can speak truest not truer than Troilus .
CRESSIDA : Will you walk in , my lord ? Re-enter PANDARUS
PANDARUS : What , blushing still ? have you not done talking yet ?
CRESSIDA : Well , uncle , what folly I commit , I dedicate to you .
PANDARUS : I thank you for that : if my lord get a boy of you , you 'll give him me . Be true to my lord : if he flinch , chide me for it .
