Second Citizen : Peace ! let us hear what Antony can say .
ANTONY : You gentle Romans , --
Citizens : Peace , ho ! let us hear him .
ANTONY : Friends , Romans , countrymen , lend me your ears ; I come to bury Caesar , not to praise him . The evil that men do lives after them ; The good is oft interred with their bones ; So let it be with Caesar . The noble Brutus Hath told you Caesar was ambitious : If it were so , it was a grievous fault , And grievously hath Caesar answer 'd it . Here , under leave of Brutus and the rest-- For Brutus is an honourable man ; So are they all , all honourable men-- Come I to speak in Caesar 's funeral . He was my friend , faithful and just to me : But Brutus says he was ambitious ; And Brutus is an honourable man . He hath brought many captives home to Rome Whose ransoms did the general coffers fill : Did this in Caesar seem ambitious ? When that the poor have cried , Caesar hath wept : Ambition should be made of sterner stuff : Yet Brutus says he was ambitious ; And Brutus is an honourable man . You all did see that on the Lupercal I thrice presented him a kingly crown , Which he did thrice refuse : was this ambition ? Yet Brutus says he was ambitious ; And , sure , he is an honourable man . I speak not to disprove what Brutus spoke , But here I am to speak what I do know . You all did love him once , not without cause : What cause withholds you then , to mourn for him ? O judgment ! thou art fled to brutish beasts , And men have lost their reason . Bear with me ; My heart is in the coffin there with Caesar , And I must pause till it come back to me .
First Citizen : Methinks there is much reason in his sayings .
Second Citizen : If thou consider rightly of the matter , Caesar has had great wrong .
Third Citizen : Has he , masters ? I fear there will a worse come in his place .
Fourth Citizen : Mark 'd ye his words ? He would not take the crown ; Therefore ' tis certain he was not ambitious .
First Citizen : If it be found so , some will dear abide it .
Second Citizen : Poor soul ! his eyes are red as fire with weeping .
Third Citizen : There 's not a nobler man in Rome than Antony .
Fourth Citizen : Now mark him , he begins again to speak .
ANTONY : But yesterday the word of Caesar might Have stood against the world ; now lies he there . And none so poor to do him reverence . O masters , if I were disposed to stir Your hearts and minds to mutiny and rage , I should do Brutus wrong , and Cassius wrong , Who , you all know , are honourable men : I will not do them wrong ; I rather choose To wrong the dead , to wrong myself and you , Than I will wrong such honourable men . But here 's a parchment with the seal of Caesar ; I found it in his closet , ' tis his will : Let but the commons hear this testament-- Which , pardon me , I do not mean to read-- And they would go and kiss dead Caesar 's wounds And dip their napkins in his sacred blood , Yea , beg a hair of him for memory , And , dying , mention it within their wills , Bequeathing it as a rich legacy Unto their issue .
Fourth Citizen : We 'll hear the will : read it , Mark Antony .
All : The will , the will ! we will hear Caesar 's will .
