BRUTUS : O , name him not : let us not break with him ; For he will never follow any thing That other men begin .
CASSIUS : Then leave him out .
CASCA : Indeed he is not fit .
DECIUS BRUTUS : Shall no man else be touch 'd but only Caesar ?
CASSIUS : Decius , well urged : I think it is not meet , Mark Antony , so well beloved of Caesar , Should outlive Caesar : we shall find of him A shrewd contriver ; and , you know , his means , If he improve them , may well stretch so far As to annoy us all : which to prevent , Let Antony and Caesar fall together .
BRUTUS : Our course will seem too bloody , Caius Cassius , To cut the head off and then hack the limbs , Like wrath in death and envy afterwards ; For Antony is but a limb of Caesar : Let us be sacrificers , but not butchers , Caius . We all stand up against the spirit of Caesar ; And in the spirit of men there is no blood : O , that we then could come by Caesar 's spirit , And not dismember Caesar ! But , alas , Caesar must bleed for it ! And , gentle friends , Let 's kill him boldly , but not wrathfully ; Let 's carve him as a dish fit for the gods , Not hew him as a carcass fit for hounds : And let our hearts , as subtle masters do , Stir up their servants to an act of rage , And after seem to chide ' em . This shall make Our purpose necessary and not envious : Which so appearing to the common eyes , We shall be call 'd purgers , not murderers . And for Mark Antony , think not of him ; For he can do no more than Caesar 's arm When Caesar 's head is off .
CASSIUS : Yet I fear him ; For in the ingrafted love he bears to Caesar--
BRUTUS : Alas , good Cassius , do not think of him : If he love Caesar , all that he can do Is to himself , take thought and die for Caesar : And that were much he should ; for he is given To sports , to wildness and much company .
TREBONIUS : There is no fear in him ; let him not die ; For he will live , and laugh at this hereafter . Clock strikes
BRUTUS : Peace ! count the clock .
CASSIUS : The clock hath stricken three .
TREBONIUS : ' Tis time to part .
CASSIUS : But it is doubtful yet , Whether Caesar will come forth to-day , or no ; For he is superstitious grown of late , Quite from the main opinion he held once Of fantasy , of dreams and ceremonies : It may be , these apparent prodigies , The unaccustom 'd terror of this night , And the persuasion of his augurers , May hold him from the Capitol to-day .
DECIUS BRUTUS : Never fear that : if he be so resolved , I can o 'ersway him ; for he loves to hear That unicorns may be betray 'd with trees , And bears with glasses , elephants with holes , Lions with toils and men with flatterers ; But when I tell him he hates flatterers , He says he does , being then most flattered . Let me work ; For I can give his humour the true bent , And I will bring him to the Capitol .
CASSIUS : Nay , we will all of us be there to fetch him .
BRUTUS : By the eighth hour : is that the uttermost ?
CINNA : Be that the uttermost , and fail not then .
METELLUS CIMBER : Caius Ligarius doth bear Caesar hard , Who rated him for speaking well of Pompey : I wonder none of you have thought of him .
BRUTUS : Now , good Metellus , go along by him : He loves me well , and I have given him reasons ; Send him but hither , and I 'll fashion him .
