BRUTUS : O ye gods , Render me worthy of this noble wife ! Knocking within Hark , hark ! one knocks : Portia , go in awhile ; And by and by thy bosom shall partake The secrets of my heart . All my engagements I will construe to thee , All the charactery of my sad brows : Leave me with haste . Exit PORTIA Lucius , who 's that knocks ? Re-enter LUCIUS with LIGARIUS
LUCIUS : He is a sick man that would speak with you .
BRUTUS : Caius Ligarius , that Metellus spake of . Boy , stand aside . Caius Ligarius ! how ?
LIGARIUS : Vouchsafe good morrow from a feeble tongue .
BRUTUS : O , what a time have you chose out , brave Caius , To wear a kerchief ! Would you were not sick !
LIGARIUS : I am not sick , if Brutus have in hand Any exploit worthy the name of honour .
BRUTUS : Such an exploit have I in hand , Ligarius , Had you a healthful ear to hear of it .
LIGARIUS : By all the gods that Romans bow before , I here discard my sickness ! Soul of Rome ! Brave son , derived from honourable loins ! Thou , like an exorcist , hast conjured up My mortified spirit . Now bid me run , And I will strive with things impossible ; Yea , get the better of them . What 's to do ?
BRUTUS : A piece of work that will make sick men whole .
LIGARIUS : But are not some whole that we must make sick ?
BRUTUS : That must we also . What it is , my Caius , I shall unfold to thee , as we are going To whom it must be done .
LIGARIUS : Set on your foot , And with a heart new-fired I follow you , To do I know not what : but it sufficeth That Brutus leads me on .
BRUTUS : Follow me , then . Thunder and lightning . Enter CAESAR , in his night-gown
CAESAR : Nor heaven nor earth have been at peace to-night : Thrice hath Calpurnia in her sleep cried out , ' Help , ho ! they murder Caesar ! ' Who 's within ? Enter a Servant
Servant : My lord ?
CAESAR : Go bid the priests do present sacrifice And bring me their opinions of success .
Servant : I will , my lord . Exit Enter CALPURNIA
CALPURNIA : What mean you , Caesar ? think you to walk forth ? You shall not stir out of your house to-day .
CAESAR : Caesar shall forth : the things that threaten 'd me Ne 'er look 'd but on my back ; when they shall see The face of Caesar , they are vanished .
CALPURNIA : Caesar , I never stood on ceremonies , Yet now they fright me . There is one within , Besides the things that we have heard and seen , Recounts most horrid sights seen by the watch . A lioness hath whelped in the streets ; And graves have yawn 'd , and yielded up their dead ; Fierce fiery warriors fought upon the clouds , In ranks and squadrons and right form of war , Which drizzled blood upon the Capitol ; The noise of battle hurtled in the air , Horses did neigh , and dying men did groan , And ghosts did shriek and squeal about the streets . O Caesar ! these things are beyond all use , And I do fear them .
CAESAR : What can be avoided Whose end is purposed by the mighty gods ? Yet Caesar shall go forth ; for these predictions Are to the world in general as to Caesar .
CALPURNIA : When beggars die , there are no comets seen ; The heavens themselves blaze forth the death of princes .
CAESAR : Cowards die many times before their deaths ; The valiant never taste of death but once . Of all the wonders that I yet have heard . It seems to me most strange that men should fear ; Seeing that death , a necessary end , Will come when it will come . Re-enter Servant What say the augurers ?
