CAESAR : The gods do this in shame of cowardice : Caesar should be a beast without a heart , If he should stay at home to-day for fear . No , Caesar shall not : danger knows full well That Caesar is more dangerous than he : We are two lions litter 'd in one day , And I the elder and more terrible : And Caesar shall go forth .
CALPURNIA : Alas , my lord , Your wisdom is consumed in confidence . Do not go forth to-day : call it my fear That keeps you in the house , and not your own . We 'll send Mark Antony to the senate-house : And he shall say you are not well to-day : Let me , upon my knee , prevail in this .
CAESAR : Mark Antony shall say I am not well , And , for thy humour , I will stay at home . Enter DECIUS BRUTUS Here 's Decius Brutus , he shall tell them so .
DECIUS BRUTUS : Caesar , all hail ! good morrow , worthy Caesar : I come to fetch you to the senate-house .
CAESAR : And you are come in very happy time , To bear my greeting to the senators And tell them that I will not come to-day : Cannot , is false , and that I dare not , falser : I will not come to-day : tell them so , Decius .
CALPURNIA : Say he is sick .
CAESAR : Shall Caesar send a lie ? Have I in conquest stretch 'd mine arm so far , To be afraid to tell graybeards the truth ? Decius , go tell them Caesar will not come .
DECIUS BRUTUS : Most mighty Caesar , let me know some cause , Lest I be laugh 'd at when I tell them so .
CAESAR : The cause is in my will : I will not come ; That is enough to satisfy the senate . But for your private satisfaction , Because I love you , I will let you know : Calpurnia here , my wife , stays me at home : She dreamt to-night she saw my statua , Which , like a fountain with an hundred spouts , Did run pure blood : and many lusty Romans Came smiling , and did bathe their hands in it : And these does she apply for warnings , and portents , And evils imminent ; and on her knee Hath begg 'd that I will stay at home to-day .
DECIUS BRUTUS : This dream is all amiss interpreted ; It was a vision fair and fortunate : Your statue spouting blood in many pipes , In which so many smiling Romans bathed , Signifies that from you great Rome shall suck Reviving blood , and that great men shall press For tinctures , stains , relics and cognizance . This by Calpurnia 's dream is signified .
CAESAR : And this way have you well expounded it .
DECIUS BRUTUS : I have , when you have heard what I can say : And know it now : the senate have concluded To give this day a crown to mighty Caesar . If you shall send them word you will not come , Their minds may change . Besides , it were a mock Apt to be render 'd , for some one to say ' Break up the senate till another time , When Caesar 's wife shall meet with better dreams . ' If Caesar hide himself , shall they not whisper ' Lo , Caesar is afraid ' ? Pardon me , Caesar ; for my dear dear love To our proceeding bids me tell you this ; And reason to my love is liable .
CAESAR : How foolish do your fears seem now , Calpurnia ! I am ashamed I did yield to them . Give me my robe , for I will go . Enter PUBLIUS , BRUTUS , LIGARIUS , METELLUS , CASCA , TREBONIUS , and CINNA And look where Publius is come to fetch me .
PUBLIUS : Good morrow , Caesar .
CAESAR : Welcome , Publius . What , Brutus , are you stirr 'd so early too ? Good morrow , Casca . Caius Ligarius , Caesar was ne 'er so much your enemy As that same ague which hath made you lean . What is ' t o 'clock ?
