BRUTUS : You say you are a better soldier : Let it appear so ; make your vaunting true , And it shall please me well : for mine own part , I shall be glad to learn of noble men .
CASSIUS : You wrong me every way ; you wrong me , Brutus ; I said , an elder soldier , not a better : Did I say ' better ' ?
BRUTUS : If you did , I care not .
CASSIUS : When Caesar lived , he durst not thus have moved me .
BRUTUS : Peace , peace ! you durst not so have tempted him .
CASSIUS : I durst not !
BRUTUS : No .
CASSIUS : What , durst not tempt him !
BRUTUS : For your life you durst not !
CASSIUS : Do not presume too much upon my love ; I may do that I shall be sorry for .
BRUTUS : You have done that you should be sorry for . There is no terror , Cassius , in your threats , For I am arm 'd so strong in honesty That they pass by me as the idle wind , Which I respect not . I did send to you For certain sums of gold , which you denied me : For I can raise no money by vile means : By heaven , I had rather coin my heart , And drop my blood for drachmas , than to wring From the hard hands of peasants their vile trash By any indirection : I did send To you for gold to pay my legions , Which you denied me : was that done like Cassius ? Should I have answer 'd Caius Cassius so ? When Marcus Brutus grows so covetous , To lock such rascal counters from his friends , Be ready , gods , with all your thunderbolts ; Dash him to pieces !
CASSIUS : I denied you not .
BRUTUS : You did .
CASSIUS : I did not : he was but a fool that brought My answer back . Brutus hath rived my heart : A friend should bear his friend 's infirmities , But Brutus makes mine greater than they are .
BRUTUS : I do not , till you practise them on me .
CASSIUS : You love me not .
BRUTUS : I do not like your faults .
CASSIUS : A friendly eye could never see such faults .
BRUTUS : A flatterer 's would not , though they do appear As huge as high Olympus .
CASSIUS : Come , Antony , and young Octavius , come , Revenge yourselves alone on Cassius , For Cassius is aweary of the world ; Hated by one he loves ; braved by his brother ; Cheque 'd like a bondman ; all his faults observed , Set in a note-book , learn 'd , and conn 'd by rote , To cast into my teeth . O , I could weep My spirit from mine eyes ! There is my dagger , And here my naked breast ; within , a heart Dearer than Plutus ' mine , richer than gold : If that thou be 'st a Roman , take it forth ; I , that denied thee gold , will give my heart : Strike , as thou didst at Caesar ; for , I know , When thou didst hate him worst , thou lovedst him better Than ever thou lovedst Cassius .
BRUTUS : Sheathe your dagger : Be angry when you will , it shall have scope ; Do what you will , dishonour shall be humour . O Cassius , you are yoked with a lamb That carries anger as the flint bears fire ; Who , much enforced , shows a hasty spark , And straight is cold again .
CASSIUS : Hath Cassius lived To be but mirth and laughter to his Brutus , When grief , and blood ill-temper 'd , vexeth him ?
BRUTUS : When I spoke that , I was ill-temper 'd too .
CASSIUS : Do you confess so much ? Give me your hand .
BRUTUS : And my heart too .
CASSIUS : O Brutus !
BRUTUS : What 's the matter ?
CASSIUS : Have not you love enough to bear with me , When that rash humour which my mother gave me Makes me forgetful ?
