All : We 'll mutiny .
First Citizen : We 'll burn the house of Brutus .
Third Citizen : Away , then ! come , seek the conspirators .
ANTONY : Yet hear me , countrymen ; yet hear me speak .
All : Peace , ho ! Hear Antony . Most noble Antony !
ANTONY : Why , friends , you go to do you know not what : Wherein hath Caesar thus deserved your loves ? Alas , you know not : I must tell you then : You have forgot the will I told you of .
All : Most true . The will ! Let 's stay and hear the will .
ANTONY : Here is the will , and under Caesar 's seal . To every Roman citizen he gives , To every several man , seventy-five drachmas .
Second Citizen : Most noble Caesar ! We 'll revenge his death .
Third Citizen : O royal Caesar !
ANTONY : Hear me with patience .
All : Peace , ho !
ANTONY : Moreover , he hath left you all his walks , His private arbours and new-planted orchards , On this side Tiber ; he hath left them you , And to your heirs for ever , common pleasures , To walk abroad , and recreate yourselves . Here was a Caesar ! when comes such another ?
First Citizen : Never , never . Come , away , away ! We 'll burn his body in the holy place , And with the brands fire the traitors ' houses . Take up the body .
Second Citizen : Go fetch fire .
Third Citizen : Pluck down benches .
Fourth Citizen : Pluck down forms , windows , any thing .
ANTONY : Now let it work . Mischief , thou art afoot , Take thou what course thou wilt ! Enter a Servant How now , fellow !
Servant : Sir , Octavius is already come to Rome .
ANTONY : Where is he ?
Servant : He and Lepidus are at Caesar 's house .
ANTONY : And thither will I straight to visit him : He comes upon a wish . Fortune is merry , And in this mood will give us any thing .
Servant : I heard him say , Brutus and Cassius Are rid like madmen through the gates of Rome .
ANTONY : Belike they had some notice of the people , How I had moved them . Bring me to Octavius . Enter CINNA the poet
CINNA THE POET : I dreamt to-night that I did feast with Caesar , And things unlucky charge my fantasy : I have no will to wander forth of doors , Yet something leads me forth . Enter Citizens
First Citizen : What is your name ?
Second Citizen : Whither are you going ?
Third Citizen : Where do you dwell ?
Fourth Citizen : Are you a married man or a bachelor ?
Second Citizen : Answer every man directly .
First Citizen : Ay , and briefly .
Fourth Citizen : Ay , and wisely .
Third Citizen : Ay , and truly , you were best .
CINNA THE POET : What is my name ? Whither am I going ? Where do I dwell ? Am I a married man or a bachelor ? Then , to answer every man directly and briefly , wisely and truly : wisely I say , I am a bachelor .
Second Citizen : That 's as much as to say , they are fools that marry : you 'll bear me a bang for that , I fear . Proceed ; directly .
CINNA THE POET : Directly , I am going to Caesar 's funeral .
First Citizen : As a friend or an enemy ?
CINNA THE POET : As a friend .
Second Citizen : That matter is answered directly .
Fourth Citizen : For your dwelling , --briefly .
CINNA THE POET : Briefly , I dwell by the Capitol .
Third Citizen : Your name , sir , truly .
CINNA THE POET : Truly , my name is Cinna .
First Citizen : Tear him to pieces ; he 's a conspirator .
CINNA THE POET : I am Cinna the poet , I am Cinna the poet .
Fourth Citizen : Tear him for his bad verses , tear him for his bad verses .
CINNA THE POET : I am not Cinna the conspirator .
