CAESAR : I thank you for your pains and courtesy . Enter ANTONY See ! Antony , that revels long o ' nights , Is notwithstanding up . Good morrow , Antony .
ANTONY : So to most noble Caesar .
CAESAR : Bid them prepare within : I am to blame to be thus waited for . Now , Cinna : now , Metellus : what , Trebonius ! I have an hour 's talk in store for you ; Remember that you call on me to-day : Be near me , that I may remember you .
TREBONIUS : Caesar , I will : Aside and so near will I be , That your best friends shall wish I had been further .
CAESAR : Good friends , go in , and taste some wine with me ; And we , like friends , will straightway go together .
BRUTUS : That every like is not the same , O Caesar , The heart of Brutus yearns to think upon ! Enter ARTEMIDORUS , reading a paper
ARTEMIDORUS : ' Caesar , beware of Brutus ; take heed of Cassius ; come not near Casca ; have an eye to Cinna , trust not Trebonius : mark well Metellus Cimber : Decius Brutus loves thee not : thou hast wronged Caius Ligarius . There is but one mind in all these men , and it is bent against Caesar . If thou beest not immortal , look about you : security gives way to conspiracy . The mighty gods defend thee ! Thy lover , ' ARTEMIDORUS . ' Here will I stand till Caesar pass along , And as a suitor will I give him this . My heart laments that virtue cannot live Out of the teeth of emulation . If thou read this , O Caesar , thou mayst live ; If not , the Fates with traitors do contrive . Exit
* * * * SCENE IV . Another part of the same street , before the house of BRUTUS . :
* * * * : Enter PORTIA and LUCIUS
PORTIA : I prithee , boy , run to the senate-house ; Stay not to answer me , but get thee gone : Why dost thou stay ?
LUCIUS : To know my errand , madam .
PORTIA : I would have had thee there , and here again , Ere I can tell thee what thou shouldst do there . O constancy , be strong upon my side , Set a huge mountain ' tween my heart and tongue ! I have a man 's mind , but a woman 's might . How hard it is for women to keep counsel ! Art thou here yet ?
LUCIUS : Madam , what should I do ? Run to the Capitol , and nothing else ? And so return to you , and nothing else ?
PORTIA : Yes , bring me word , boy , if thy lord look well , For he went sickly forth : and take good note What Caesar doth , what suitors press to him . Hark , boy ! what noise is that ?
LUCIUS : I hear none , madam .
PORTIA : Prithee , listen well ; I heard a bustling rumour , like a fray , And the wind brings it from the Capitol .
LUCIUS : Sooth , madam , I hear nothing . Enter the Soothsayer
PORTIA : Come hither , fellow : which way hast thou been ?
Soothsayer : At mine own house , good lady .
PORTIA : What is 't o 'clock ?
Soothsayer : About the ninth hour , lady .
PORTIA : Is Caesar yet gone to the Capitol ?
Soothsayer : Madam , not yet : I go to take my stand , To see him pass on to the Capitol .
PORTIA : Thou hast some suit to Caesar , hast thou not ?
Soothsayer : That I have , lady : if it will please Caesar To be so good to Caesar as to hear me , I shall beseech him to befriend himself .
PORTIA : Why , know 'st thou any harm 's intended towards him ?
