BRUTUS : But here comes Antony . Re-enter ANTONY Welcome , Mark Antony .
ANTONY : O mighty Caesar ! dost thou lie so low ? Are all thy conquests , glories , triumphs , spoils , Shrunk to this little measure ? Fare thee well . I know not , gentlemen , what you intend , Who else must be let blood , who else is rank : If I myself , there is no hour so fit As Caesar 's death hour , nor no instrument Of half that worth as those your swords , made rich With the most noble blood of all this world . I do beseech ye , if you bear me hard , Now , whilst your purpled hands do reek and smoke , Fulfil your pleasure . Live a thousand years , I shall not find myself so apt to die : No place will please me so , no mean of death , As here by Caesar , and by you cut off , The choice and master spirits of this age .
BRUTUS : O Antony , beg not your death of us . Though now we must appear bloody and cruel , As , by our hands and this our present act , You see we do , yet see you but our hands And this the bleeding business they have done : Our hearts you see not ; they are pitiful ; And pity to the general wrong of Rome-- As fire drives out fire , so pity pity-- Hath done this deed on Caesar . For your part , To you our swords have leaden points , Mark Antony : Our arms , in strength of malice , and our hearts Of brothers ' temper , do receive you in With all kind love , good thoughts , and reverence .
CASSIUS : Your voice shall be as strong as any man 's In the disposing of new dignities .
BRUTUS : Only be patient till we have appeased The multitude , beside themselves with fear , And then we will deliver you the cause , Why I , that did love Caesar when I struck him , Have thus proceeded .
ANTONY : I doubt not of your wisdom . Let each man render me his bloody hand : First , Marcus Brutus , will I shake with you ; Next , Caius Cassius , do I take your hand ; Now , Decius Brutus , yours : now yours , Metellus ; Yours , Cinna ; and , my valiant Casca , yours ; Though last , not last in love , yours , good Trebonius . Gentlemen all , --alas , what shall I say ? My credit now stands on such slippery ground , That one of two bad ways you must conceit me , Either a coward or a flatterer . That I did love thee , Caesar , O , ' tis true : If then thy spirit look upon us now , Shall it not grieve thee dearer than thy death , To see thy thy Anthony making his peace , Shaking the bloody fingers of thy foes , Most noble ! in the presence of thy corse ? Had I as many eyes as thou hast wounds , Weeping as fast as they stream forth thy blood , It would become me better than to close In terms of friendship with thine enemies . Pardon me , Julius ! Here wast thou bay 'd , brave hart ; Here didst thou fall ; and here thy hunters stand , Sign 'd in thy spoil , and crimson 'd in thy lethe . O world , thou wast the forest to this hart ; And this , indeed , O world , the heart of thee . How like a deer , strucken by many princes , Dost thou here lie !
CASSIUS : Mark Antony , --
ANTONY : Pardon me , Caius Cassius : The enemies of Caesar shall say this ; Then , in a friend , it is cold modesty .
CASSIUS : I blame you not for praising Caesar so ; But what compact mean you to have with us ? Will you be prick 'd in number of our friends ; Or shall we on , and not depend on you ?
