Fourth Citizen : Read the will ; we 'll hear it , Antony ; You shall read us the will , Caesar 's will .
ANTONY : Will you be patient ? will you stay awhile ? I have o 'ershot myself to tell you of it : I fear I wrong the honourable men Whose daggers have stabb 'd Caesar ; I do fear it .
Fourth Citizen : They were traitors : honourable men !
All : The will ! the testament !
Second Citizen : They were villains , murderers : the will ! read the will .
ANTONY : You will compel me , then , to read the will ? Then make a ring about the corpse of Caesar , And let me show you him that made the will . Shall I descend ? and will you give me leave ?
Several Citizens : Come down .
Second Citizen : Descend .
Third Citizen : You shall have leave . ANTONY comes down
Fourth Citizen : A ring ; stand round .
First Citizen : Stand from the hearse , stand from the body .
Second Citizen : Room for Antony , most noble Antony .
ANTONY : Nay , press not so upon me ; stand far off .
Several Citizens : Stand back ; room ; bear back .
ANTONY : If you have tears , prepare to shed them now . You all do know this mantle : I remember The first time ever Caesar put it on ; ' Twas on a summer 's evening , in his tent , That day he overcame the Nervii : Look , in this place ran Cassius ' dagger through : See what a rent the envious Casca made : Through this the well-beloved Brutus stabb 'd ; And as he pluck 'd his cursed steel away , Mark how the blood of Caesar follow 'd it , As rushing out of doors , to be resolved If Brutus so unkindly knock 'd , or no ; For Brutus , as you know , was Caesar 's angel : Judge , O you gods , how dearly Caesar loved him ! This was the most unkindest cut of all ; For when the noble Caesar saw him stab , Ingratitude , more strong than traitors ' arms , Quite vanquish 'd him : then burst his mighty heart ; And , in his mantle muffling up his face , Even at the base of Pompey 's statua , Which all the while ran blood , great Caesar fell . O , what a fall was there , my countrymen ! Then I , and you , and all of us fell down , Whilst bloody treason flourish 'd over us . O , now you weep ; and , I perceive , you feel The dint of pity : these are gracious drops . Kind souls , what , weep you when you but behold Our Caesar 's vesture wounded ? Look you here , Here is himself , marr 'd , as you see , with traitors .
First Citizen : O piteous spectacle !
Second Citizen : O noble Caesar !
Third Citizen : O woful day !
Fourth Citizen : O traitors , villains !
First Citizen : O most bloody sight !
Second Citizen : We will be revenged .
All : Revenge ! About ! Seek ! Burn ! Fire ! Kill ! Slay ! Let not a traitor live !
ANTONY : Stay , countrymen .
First Citizen : Peace there ! hear the noble Antony .
Second Citizen : We 'll hear him , we 'll follow him , we 'll die with him .
