LUCILIUS : They mean this night in Sardis to be quarter 'd ; The greater part , the horse in general , Are come with Cassius .
BRUTUS : Hark ! he is arrived . Low march within March gently on to meet him . Enter CASSIUS and his powers
CASSIUS : Stand , ho !
BRUTUS : Stand , ho ! Speak the word along .
First Soldier : Stand !
Second Soldier : Stand !
Third Soldier : Stand !
CASSIUS : Most noble brother , you have done me wrong .
BRUTUS : Judge me , you gods ! wrong I mine enemies ? And , if not so , how should I wrong a brother ?
CASSIUS : Brutus , this sober form of yours hides wrongs ; And when you do them--
BRUTUS : Cassius , be content . Speak your griefs softly : I do know you well . Before the eyes of both our armies here , Which should perceive nothing but love from us , Let us not wrangle : bid them move away ; Then in my tent , Cassius , enlarge your griefs , And I will give you audience .
CASSIUS : Pindarus , Bid our commanders lead their charges off A little from this ground .
BRUTUS : Lucilius , do you the like ; and let no man Come to our tent till we have done our conference . Let Lucius and Titinius guard our door . Enter BRUTUS and CASSIUS
CASSIUS : That you have wrong 'd me doth appear in this : You have condemn 'd and noted Lucius Pella For taking bribes here of the Sardians ; Wherein my letters , praying on his side , Because I knew the man , were slighted off .
BRUTUS : You wronged yourself to write in such a case .
CASSIUS : In such a time as this it is not meet That every nice offence should bear his comment .
BRUTUS : Let me tell you , Cassius , you yourself Are much condemn 'd to have an itching palm ; To sell and mart your offices for gold To undeservers .
CASSIUS : I an itching palm ! You know that you are Brutus that speak this , Or , by the gods , this speech were else your last .
BRUTUS : The name of Cassius honours this corruption , And chastisement doth therefore hide his head .
CASSIUS : Chastisement !
BRUTUS : Remember March , the ides of March remember : Did not great Julius bleed for justice ' sake ? What villain touch 'd his body , that did stab , And not for justice ? What , shall one of us That struck the foremost man of all this world But for supporting robbers , shall we now Contaminate our fingers with base bribes , And sell the mighty space of our large honours For so much trash as may be grasped thus ? I had rather be a dog , and bay the moon , Than such a Roman .
CASSIUS : Brutus , bay not me ; I 'll not endure it : you forget yourself , To hedge me in ; I am a soldier , I , Older in practise , abler than yourself To make conditions .
BRUTUS : Go to ; you are not , Cassius .
CASSIUS : I am .
BRUTUS : I say you are not .
CASSIUS : Urge me no more , I shall forget myself ; Have mind upon your health , tempt me no further .
BRUTUS : Away , slight man !
CASSIUS : Is 't possible ?
BRUTUS : Hear me , for I will speak . Must I give way and room to your rash choler ? Shall I be frighted when a madman stares ?
CASSIUS : O ye gods , ye gods ! must I endure all this ?
BRUTUS : All this ! ay , more : fret till your proud heart break ; Go show your slaves how choleric you are , And make your bondmen tremble . Must I budge ? Must I observe you ? must I stand and crouch Under your testy humour ? By the gods You shall digest the venom of your spleen , Though it do split you ; for , from this day forth , I 'll use you for my mirth , yea , for my laughter , When you are waspish .
