BRUTUS : Or else were this a savage spectacle : Our reasons are so full of good regard That were you , Antony , the son of Caesar , You should be satisfied .
ANTONY : That 's all I seek : And am moreover suitor that I may Produce his body to the market-place ; And in the pulpit , as becomes a friend , Speak in the order of his funeral .
BRUTUS : You shall , Mark Antony .
CASSIUS : Brutus , a word with you . Aside to BRUTUS You know not what you do : do not consent That Antony speak in his funeral : Know you how much the people may be moved By that which he will utter ?
BRUTUS : By your pardon ; I will myself into the pulpit first , And show the reason of our Caesar 's death : What Antony shall speak , I will protest He speaks by leave and by permission , And that we are contented Caesar shall Have all true rites and lawful ceremonies . It shall advantage more than do us wrong .
CASSIUS : I know not what may fall ; I like it not .
BRUTUS : Mark Antony , here , take you Caesar 's body . You shall not in your funeral speech blame us , But speak all good you can devise of Caesar , And say you do 't by our permission ; Else shall you not have any hand at all About his funeral : and you shall speak In the same pulpit whereto I am going , After my speech is ended .
ANTONY : Be it so . I do desire no more .
BRUTUS : Prepare the body then , and follow us .
ANTONY : O , pardon me , thou bleeding piece of earth , That I am meek and gentle with these butchers ! Thou art the ruins of the noblest man That ever lived in the tide of times . Woe to the hand that shed this costly blood ! Over thy wounds now do I prophesy , -- Which , like dumb mouths , do ope their ruby lips , To beg the voice and utterance of my tongue-- A curse shall light upon the limbs of men ; Domestic fury and fierce civil strife Shall cumber all the parts of Italy ; Blood and destruction shall be so in use And dreadful objects so familiar That mothers shall but smile when they behold Their infants quarter 'd with the hands of war ; All pity choked with custom of fell deeds : And Caesar 's spirit , ranging for revenge , With Ate by his side come hot from hell , Shall in these confines with a monarch 's voice Cry ' Havoc , ' and let slip the dogs of war ; That this foul deed shall smell above the earth With carrion men , groaning for burial . Enter a Servant You serve Octavius Caesar , do you not ?
Servant : I do , Mark Antony .
ANTONY : Caesar did write for him to come to Rome .
Servant : He did receive his letters , and is coming ; And bid me say to you by word of mouth-- O Caesar ! -- Seeing the body
ANTONY : Thy heart is big , get thee apart and weep . Passion , I see , is catching ; for mine eyes , Seeing those beads of sorrow stand in thine , Began to water . Is thy master coming ?
Servant : He lies to-night within seven leagues of Rome .
ANTONY : Post back with speed , and tell him what hath chanced : Here is a mourning Rome , a dangerous Rome , No Rome of safety for Octavius yet ; Hie hence , and tell him so . Yet , stay awhile ; Thou shalt not back till I have borne this corse Into the market-place : there shall I try In my oration , how the people take The cruel issue of these bloody men ; According to the which , thou shalt discourse To young Octavius of the state of things . Lend me your hand . Enter BRUTUS and CASSIUS , and a throng of Citizens
Citizens : We will be satisfied ; let us be satisfied .
