BRUTUS : Good gentlemen , look fresh and merrily ; Let not our looks put on our purposes , But bear it as our Roman actors do , With untired spirits and formal constancy : And so good morrow to you every one . Boy ! Lucius ! Fast asleep ? It is no matter ; Enjoy the honey-heavy dew of slumber : Thou hast no figures nor no fantasies , Which busy care draws in the brains of men ; Therefore thou sleep 'st so sound . Enter PORTIA
PORTIA : Brutus , my lord !
BRUTUS : Portia , what mean you ? wherefore rise you now ? It is not for your health thus to commit Your weak condition to the raw cold morning .
PORTIA : Nor for yours neither . You 've ungently , Brutus , Stole from my bed : and yesternight , at supper , You suddenly arose , and walk 'd about , Musing and sighing , with your arms across , And when I ask 'd you what the matter was , You stared upon me with ungentle looks ; I urged you further ; then you scratch 'd your head , And too impatiently stamp 'd with your foot ; Yet I insisted , yet you answer 'd not , But , with an angry wafture of your hand , Gave sign for me to leave you : so I did ; Fearing to strengthen that impatience Which seem 'd too much enkindled , and withal Hoping it was but an effect of humour , Which sometime hath his hour with every man . It will not let you eat , nor talk , nor sleep , And could it work so much upon your shape As it hath much prevail 'd on your condition , I should not know you , Brutus . Dear my lord , Make me acquainted with your cause of grief .
BRUTUS : I am not well in health , and that is all .
PORTIA : Brutus is wise , and , were he not in health , He would embrace the means to come by it .
BRUTUS : Why , so I do . Good Portia , go to bed .
PORTIA : Is Brutus sick ? and is it physical To walk unbraced and suck up the humours Of the dank morning ? What , is Brutus sick , And will he steal out of his wholesome bed , To dare the vile contagion of the night And tempt the rheumy and unpurged air To add unto his sickness ? No , my Brutus ; You have some sick offence within your mind , Which , by the right and virtue of my place , I ought to know of : and , upon my knees , I charm you , by my once-commended beauty , By all your vows of love and that great vow Which did incorporate and make us one , That you unfold to me , yourself , your half , Why you are heavy , and what men to-night Have had to resort to you : for here have been Some six or seven , who did hide their faces Even from darkness .
BRUTUS : Kneel not , gentle Portia .
PORTIA : I should not need , if you were gentle Brutus . Within the bond of marriage , tell me , Brutus , Is it excepted I should know no secrets That appertain to you ? Am I yourself But , as it were , in sort or limitation , To keep with you at meals , comfort your bed , And talk to you sometimes ? Dwell I but in the suburbs Of your good pleasure ? If it be no more , Portia is Brutus ' harlot , not his wife .
BRUTUS : You are my true and honourable wife , As dear to me as are the ruddy drops That visit my sad heart
