BRUTUS : Why , then , lead on . O , that a man might know The end of this day 's business ere it come ! But it sufficeth that the day will end , And then the end is known . Come , ho ! away ! Alarum . Enter BRUTUS and MESSALA
BRUTUS : Ride , ride , Messala , ride , and give these bills Unto the legions on the other side . Loud alarum Let them set on at once ; for I perceive But cold demeanor in Octavius ' wing , And sudden push gives them the overthrow . Ride , ride , Messala : let them all come down . Alarums . Enter CASSIUS and TITINIUS
CASSIUS : O , look , Titinius , look , the villains fly ! Myself have to mine own turn 'd enemy : This ensign here of mine was turning back ; I slew the coward , and did take it from him .
TITINIUS : O Cassius , Brutus gave the word too early ; Who , having some advantage on Octavius , Took it too eagerly : his soldiers fell to spoil , Whilst we by Antony are all enclosed . Enter PINDARUS
PINDARUS : Fly further off , my lord , fly further off ; Mark Antony is in your tents , my lord Fly , therefore , noble Cassius , fly far off .
CASSIUS : This hill is far enough . Look , look , Titinius ; Are those my tents where I perceive the fire ?
TITINIUS : They are , my lord .
CASSIUS : Titinius , if thou lovest me , Mount thou my horse , and hide thy spurs in him , Till he have brought thee up to yonder troops , And here again ; that I may rest assured Whether yond troops are friend or enemy .
TITINIUS : I will be here again , even with a thought . Exit
CASSIUS : Go , Pindarus , get higher on that hill ; My sight was ever thick ; regard Titinius , And tell me what thou notest about the field . PINDARUS ascends the hill This day I breathed first : time is come round , And where I did begin , there shall I end ; My life is run his compass . Sirrah , what news ?
PINDARUS : O my lord !
CASSIUS : What news ?
PINDARUS : Titinius is enclosed round about With horsemen , that make to him on the spur ; Yet he spurs on . Now they are almost on him . Now , Titinius ! Now some light . O , he lights too . He 's ta 'en . Shout And , hark ! they shout for joy .
CASSIUS : Come down , behold no more . O , coward that I am , to live so long , To see my best friend ta 'en before my face ! PINDARUS descends Come hither , sirrah : In Parthia did I take thee prisoner ; And then I swore thee , saving of thy life , That whatsoever I did bid thee do , Thou shouldst attempt it . Come now , keep thine oath ; Now be a freeman : and with this good sword , That ran through Caesar 's bowels , search this bosom . Stand not to answer : here , take thou the hilts ; And , when my face is cover 'd , as ' tis now , Guide thou the sword . PINDARUS stabs him Caesar , thou art revenged , Even with the sword that kill 'd thee . Dies
PINDARUS : So , I am free ; yet would not so have been , Durst I have done my will . O Cassius , Far from this country Pindarus shall run , Where never Roman shall take note of him . Exit Re-enter TITINIUS with MESSALA
MESSALA : It is but change , Titinius ; for Octavius Is overthrown by noble Brutus ' power , As Cassius ' legions are by Antony .
TITINIUS : These tidings will well comfort Cassius .
MESSALA : Where did you leave him ?
TITINIUS : All disconsolate , With Pindarus his bondman , on this hill .
MESSALA : Is not that he t hat lies upon the ground ?
TITINIUS : He lies not like the living . O my heart !
MESSALA : Is not that he ?
