CASSIUS : But , soft , I pray you : what , did Caesar swound ?
CASCA : He fell down in the market-place , and foamed at mouth , and was speechless .
BRUTUS : ' Tis very like : he hath the failing sickness .
CASSIUS : No , Caesar hath it not ; but you and I , And honest Casca , we have the falling sickness .
CASCA : I know not what you mean by that ; but , I am sure , Caesar fell down . If the tag-rag people did not clap him and hiss him , according as he pleased and displeased them , as they use to do the players in the theatre , I am no true man .
BRUTUS : What said he when he came unto himself ?
CASCA : Marry , before he fell down , when he perceived the common herd was glad he refused the crown , he plucked me ope his doublet and offered them his throat to cut . An I had been a man of any occupation , if I would not have taken him at a word , I would I might go to hell among the rogues . And so he fell . When he came to himself again , he said , If he had done or said any thing amiss , he desired their worships to think it was his infirmity . Three or four wenches , where I stood , cried ' Alas , good soul ! ' and forgave him with all their hearts : but there 's no heed to be taken of them ; if Caesar had stabbed their mothers , they would have done no less .
BRUTUS : And after that , he came , thus sad , away ?
CASCA : Ay .
CASSIUS : Did Cicero say any thing ?
CASCA : Ay , he spoke Greek .
CASSIUS : To what effect ?
CASCA : Nay , an I tell you that , Ill ne 'er look you i ' the face again : but those that understood him smiled at one another and shook their heads ; but , for mine own part , it was Greek to me . I could tell you more news too : Marullus and Flavius , for pulling scarfs off Caesar 's images , are put to silence . Fare you well . There was more foolery yet , if I could remember it .
CASSIUS : Will you sup with me to-night , Casca ?
CASCA : No , I am promised forth .
CASSIUS : Will you dine with me to-morrow ?
CASCA : Ay , if I be alive and your mind hold and your dinner worth the eating .
CASSIUS : Good : I will expect you .
CASCA : Do so . Farewell , both . Exit
BRUTUS : What a blunt fellow is this grown to be ! He was quick mettle when he went to school .
CASSIUS : So is he now in execution Of any bold or noble enterprise , However he puts on this tardy form . This rudeness is a sauce to his good wit , Which gives men stomach to digest his words With better appetite .
BRUTUS : And so it is . For this time I will leave you : To-morrow , if you please to speak with me , I will come home to you ; or , if you will , Come home to me , and I will wait for you .
