CICERO : Good even , Casca : brought you Caesar home ? Why are you breathless ? and why stare you so ?
CASCA : Are not you moved , when all the sway of earth Shakes like a thing unfirm ? O Cicero , I have seen tempests , when the scolding winds Have rived the knotty oaks , and I have seen The ambitious ocean swell and rage and foam , To be exalted with the threatening clouds : But never till to-night , never till now , Did I go through a tempest dropping fire . Either there is a civil strife in heaven , Or else the world , too saucy with the gods , Incenses them to send destruction .
CICERO : Why , saw you any thing more wonderful ?
CASCA : A common slave--you know him well by sight-- Held up his left hand , which did flame and burn Like twenty torches join 'd , and yet his hand , Not sensible of fire , remain 'd unscorch 'd . Besides--I ha ' not since put up my sword-- Against the Capitol I met a lion , Who glared upon me , and went surly by , Without annoying me : and there were drawn Upon a heap a hundred ghastly women , Transformed with their fear ; who swore they saw Men all in fire walk up and down the streets . And yesterday the bird of night did sit Even at noon-day upon the market-place , Hooting and shrieking . When these prodigies Do so conjointly meet , let not men say ' These are their reasons ; they are natural ; ' For , I believe , they are portentous things Unto the climate that they point upon .
CICERO : Indeed , it is a strange-disposed time : But men may construe things after their fashion , Clean from the purpose of the things themselves . Come Caesar to the Capitol to-morrow ?
CASCA : He doth ; for he did bid Antonius Send word to you he would be there to-morrow .
CICERO : Good night then , Casca : this disturbed sky Is not to walk in .
CASCA : Farewell , Cicero . Exit CICERO Enter CASSIUS
CASSIUS : Who 's there ?
CASCA : A Roman .
CASSIUS : Casca , by your voice .
CASCA : Your ear is good . Cassius , what night is this !
CASSIUS : A very pleasing night to honest men .
CASCA : Who ever knew the heavens menace so ?
CASSIUS : Those that have known the earth so full of faults . For my part , I have walk 'd about the streets , Submitting me unto the perilous night , And , thus unbraced , Casca , as you see , Have bared my bosom to the thunder-stone ; And when the cross blue lightning seem 'd to open The breast of heaven , I did present myself Even in the aim and very flash of it .
CASCA : But wherefore did you so much tempt the heavens ? It is the part of men to fear and tremble , When the most mighty gods by tokens send Such dreadful heralds to astonish us .
CASSIUS : You are dull , Casca , and those sparks of life That should be in a Roman you do want , Or else you use not . You look pale and gaze And put on fear and cast yourself in wonder , To see the strange impatience of the heavens : But if you would consider the true cause Why all these fires , why all these gliding ghosts , Why birds and beasts from quality and kind , Why old men fool and children calculate , Why all these things change from their ordinance Their natures and preformed faculties To monstrous quality , --why , you shall find That heaven hath infused them with these spirits , To make them instruments of fear and warning Unto some monstrous state . Now could I , Casca , name to thee a man Most like this dreadful night , That thunders , lightens , opens graves , and roars As doth the lion in the Capitol , A man no mightier than thyself or me In personal action , yet prodigious grown And fearful , as these strange eruptions are .
CASCA : ' Tis Caesar that you mean ; is it not , Cassius ?
