CASSIUS : Ay , do you fear it ? Then must I think you would not have it so .
BRUTUS : I would not , Cassius ; yet I love him well . But wherefore do you hold me here so long ? What is it that you would impart to me ? If it be aught toward the general good , Set honour in one eye and death i ' the other , And I will look on both indifferently , For let the gods so speed me as I love The name of honour more than I fear death .
CASSIUS : I know that virtue to be in you , Brutus , As well as I do know your outward favour . Well , honour is the subject of my story . I cannot tell what you and other men Think of this life ; but , for my single self , I had as lief not be as live to be In awe of such a thing as I myself . I was born free as Caesar ; so were you : We both have fed as well , and we can both Endure the winter 's cold as well as he : For once , upon a raw and gusty day , The troubled Tiber chafing with her shores , Caesar said to me ' Darest thou , Cassius , now Leap in with me into this angry flood , And swim to yonder point ? ' Upon the word , Accoutred as I was , I plunged in And bade him follow ; so indeed he did . The torrent roar 'd , and we did buffet it With lusty sinews , throwing it aside And stemming it with hearts of controversy ; But ere we could arrive the point proposed , Caesar cried ' Help me , Cassius , or I sink ! ' I , as Aeneas , our great ancestor , Did from the flames of Troy upon his shoulder The old Anchises bear , so from the waves of Tiber Did I the tired Caesar . And this man Is now become a god , and Cassius is A wretched creature and must bend his body , If Caesar carelessly but nod on him . He had a fever when he was in Spain , And when the fit was on him , I did mark How he did shake : ' tis true , this god did shake ; His coward lips did from their colour fly , And that same eye whose bend doth awe the world Did lose his lustre : I did hear him groan : Ay , and that tongue of his that bade the Romans Mark him and write his speeches in their books , Alas , it cried ' Give me some drink , Titinius , ' As a sick girl . Ye gods , it doth amaze me A man of such a feeble temper should So get the start of the majestic world And bear the palm alone . Shout . Flourish
BRUTUS : Another general shout ! I do believe that these applauses are For some new honours that are heap 'd on Caesar .
