BRUTUS : That you do love me , I am nothing jealous ; What you would work me to , I have some aim : How I have thought of this and of these times , I shall recount hereafter ; for this present , I would not , so with love I might entreat you , Be any further moved . What you have said I will consider ; what you have to say I will with patience hear , and find a time Both meet to hear and answer such high things . Till then , my noble friend , chew upon this : Brutus had rather be a villager Than to repute himself a son of Rome Under these hard conditions as this time Is like to lay upon us .
CASSIUS : I am glad that my weak words Have struck but thus much show of fire from Brutus .
BRUTUS : The games are done and Caesar is returning .
CASSIUS : As they pass by , pluck Casca by the sleeve ; And he will , after his sour fashion , tell you What hath proceeded worthy note to-day . Re-enter CAESAR and his Train
BRUTUS : I will do so . But , look you , Cassius , The angry spot doth glow on Caesar 's brow , And all the rest look like a chidden train : Calpurnia 's cheek is pale ; and Cicero Looks with such ferret and such fiery eyes As we have seen him in the Capitol , Being cross 'd in conference by some senators .
CASSIUS : Casca will tell us what the matter is .
CAESAR : Antonius !
ANTONY : Caesar ?
CAESAR : Let me have men about me that are fat ; Sleek-headed men and such as sleep o ' nights : Yond Cassius has a lean and hungry look ; He thinks too much : such men are dangerous .
ANTONY : Fear him not , Caesar ; he 's not dangerous ; He is a noble Roman and well given .
CAESAR : Would he were fatter ! But I fear him not : Yet if my name were liable to fear , I do not know the man I should avoid So soon as that spare Cassius . He reads much ; He is a great observer and he looks Quite through the deeds of men : he loves no plays , As thou dost , Antony ; he hears no music ; Seldom he smiles , and smiles in such a sort As if he mock 'd himself and scorn 'd his spirit That could be moved to smile at any thing . Such men as he be never at heart 's ease Whiles they behold a greater than themselves , And therefore are they very dangerous . I rather tell thee what is to be fear 'd Than what I fear ; for always I am Caesar . Come on my right hand , for this ear is deaf , And tell me truly what thou think 'st of him .
CASCA : You pull 'd me by the cloak ; would you speak with me ?
BRUTUS : Ay , Casca ; tell us what hath chanced to-day , That Caesar looks so sad .
CASCA : Why , you were with him , were you not ?
BRUTUS : I should not then ask Casca what had chanced .
CASCA : Why , there was a crown offered him : and being offered him , he put it by with the back of his hand , thus ; and then the people fell a-shouting .
BRUTUS : What was the second noise for ?
CASCA : Why , for that too .
CASSIUS : They shouted thrice : what was the last cry for ?
CASCA : Why , for that too .
BRUTUS : Was the crown offered him thrice ?
CASCA : Ay , marry , was 't , and he put it by thrice , every time gentler than other , and at every putting-by mine honest neighbours shouted .
CASSIUS : Who offered him the crown ?
CASCA : Why , Antony .
BRUTUS : Tell us the manner of it , gentle Casca .
