MESSALA : Mistrust of good success hath done this deed . O hateful error , melancholy 's child , Why dost thou show to the apt thoughts of men The things that are not ? O error , soon conceived , Thou never comest unto a happy birth , But kill 'st the mother that engender 'd thee !
TITINIUS : What , Pindarus ! where art thou , Pindarus ?
MESSALA : Seek him , Titinius , whilst I go to meet The noble Brutus , thrusting this report Into his ears ; I may say , thrusting it ; For piercing steel and darts envenomed Shall be as welcome to the ears of Brutus As tidings of this sight .
TITINIUS : Hie you , Messala , And I will seek for Pindarus the while . Exit MESSALA Why didst thou send me forth , brave Cassius ? Did I not meet thy friends ? and did not they Put on my brows this wreath of victory , And bid me give it thee ? Didst thou not hear their shouts ? Alas , thou hast misconstrued every thing ! But , hold thee , take this garland on thy brow ; Thy Brutus bid me give it thee , and I Will do his bidding . Brutus , come apace , And see how I regarded Caius Cassius . By your leave , gods : --this is a Roman 's part Come , Cassius ' sword , and find Titinius ' heart . Kills himself Alarum . Re-enter MESSALA , with BRUTUS , CATO , STRATO , VOLUMNIUS , and LUCILIUS
BRUTUS : Where , where , Messala , doth his body lie ?
MESSALA : Lo , yonder , and Titinius mourning it .
BRUTUS : Titinius ' face is upward .
CATO : He is slain .
BRUTUS : O Julius Caesar , thou art mighty yet ! Thy spirit walks abroad and turns our swords In our own proper entrails . Low alarums
CATO : Brave Titinius ! Look , whether he have not crown 'd dead Cassius !
BRUTUS : Are yet two Romans living such as these ? The last of all the Romans , fare thee well ! It is impossible that ever Rome Should breed thy fellow . Friends , I owe more tears To this dead man than you shall see me pay . I shall find time , Cassius , I shall find time . Come , therefore , and to Thasos send his body : His funerals shall not be in our camp , Lest it discomfort us . Lucilius , come ; And come , young Cato ; let us to the field . Labeo and Flavius , set our battles on : ' Tis three o 'clock ; and , Romans , yet ere night We shall try fortune in a second fight . Alarum . Enter fighting , Soldiers of both armies ; then BRUTUS , CATO , LUCILIUS , and others
BRUTUS : Yet , countrymen , O , yet hold up your heads !
CATO : What bastard doth not ? Who will go with me ? I will proclaim my name about the field : I am the son of Marcus Cato , ho ! A foe to tyrants , and my country 's friend ; I am the son of Marcus Cato , ho !
BRUTUS : And I am Brutus , Marcus Brutus , I ; Brutus , my country 's friend ; know me for Brutus ! Exit
LUCILIUS : O young and noble Cato , art thou down ? Why , now thou diest as bravely as Titinius ; And mayst be honour 'd , being Cato 's son .
First Soldier : Yield , or thou diest .
LUCILIUS : Only I yield to die : There is so much that thou wilt kill me straight ; Offering money Kill Brutus , and be honour 'd in his death .
First Soldier : We must not . A noble prisoner !
Second Soldier : Room , ho ! Tell Antony , Brutus is ta 'en .
First Soldier : I 'll tell the news . Here comes the general . Enter ANTONY Brutus is ta 'en , Brutus is ta 'en , my lord .
ANTONY : Where is he ?
