CASCA : Indeed , they say the senators tomorrow Mean to establish Caesar as a king ; And he shall wear his crown by sea and land , In every place , save here in Italy .
CASSIUS : I know where I will wear this dagger then ; Cassius from bondage will deliver Cassius : Therein , ye gods , you make the weak most strong ; Therein , ye gods , you tyrants do defeat : Nor stony tower , nor walls of beaten brass , Nor airless dungeon , nor strong links of iron , Can be retentive to the strength of spirit ; But life , being weary of these worldly bars , Never lacks power to dismiss itself . If I know this , know all the world besides , That part of tyranny that I do bear I can shake off at pleasure . Thunder still
CASCA : So can I : So every bondman in his own hand bears The power to cancel his captivity .
CASSIUS : And why should Caesar be a tyrant then ? Poor man ! I know he would not be a wolf , But that he sees the Romans are but sheep : He were no lion , were not Romans hinds . Those that with haste will make a mighty fire Begin it with weak straws : what trash is Rome , What rubbish and what offal , when it serves For the base matter to illuminate So vile a thing as Caesar ! But , O grief , Where hast thou led me ? I perhaps speak this Before a willing bondman ; then I know My answer must be made . But I am arm 'd , And dangers are to me indifferent .
CASCA : You speak to Casca , and to such a man That is no fleering tell-tale . Hold , my hand : Be factious for redress of all these griefs , And I will set this foot of mine as far As who goes farthest .
CASSIUS : There 's a bargain made . Now know you , Casca , I have moved already Some certain of the noblest-minded Romans To undergo with me an enterprise Of honourable-dangerous consequence ; And I do know , by this , they stay for me In Pompey 's porch : for now , this fearful night , There is no stir or walking in the streets ; And the complexion of the element In favour 's like the work we have in hand , Most bloody , fiery , and most terrible .
CASCA : Stand close awhile , for here comes one in haste .
CASSIUS : ' Tis Cinna ; I do know him by his gait ; He is a friend . Enter CINNA Cinna , where haste you so ?
CINNA : To find out you . Who 's that ? Metellus Cimber ?
CASSIUS : No , it is Casca ; one incorporate To our attempts . Am I not stay 'd for , Cinna ?
CINNA : I am glad on ' t . What a fearful night is this ! There 's two or three of us have seen strange sights .
CASSIUS : Am I not stay 'd for ? tell me .
CINNA : Yes , you are . O Cassius , if you could But win the noble Brutus to our party--
CASSIUS : Be you content : good Cinna , take this paper , And look you lay it in the praetor 's chair , Where Brutus may but find it ; and throw this In at his window ; set this up with wax Upon old Brutus ' statue : all this done , Repair to Pompey 's porch , where you shall find us . Is Decius Brutus and Trebonius there ?
CINNA : All but Metellus Cimber ; and he 's gone To seek you at your house . Well , I will hie , And so bestow these papers as you bade me .
CASSIUS : That done , repair to Pompey 's theatre . Exit CINNA Come , Casca , you and I will yet ere day See Brutus at his house : three parts of him Is ours already , and the man entire Upon the next encounter yields him ours .
