CASSIUS : Flatterers ! Now , Brutus , thank yourself : This tongue had not offended so to-day , If Cassius might have ruled .
OCTAVIUS : Come , come , the cause : if arguing make us sweat , The proof of it will turn to redder drops . Look ; I draw a sword against conspirators ; When think you that the sword goes up again ? Never , till Caesar 's three and thirty wounds Be well avenged ; or till another Caesar Have added slaughter to the sword of traitors .
BRUTUS : Caesar , thou canst not die by traitors ' hands , Unless thou bring 'st them with thee .
OCTAVIUS : So I hope ; I was not born to die on Brutus ' sword .
BRUTUS : O , if thou wert the noblest of thy strain , Young man , thou couldst not die more honourable .
CASSIUS : A peevish schoolboy , worthless of such honour , Join 'd with a masker and a reveller !
ANTONY : Old Cassius still !
OCTAVIUS : Come , Antony , away ! Defiance , traitors , hurl we in your teeth : If you dare fight to-day , come to the field ; If not , when you have stomachs .
CASSIUS : Why , now , blow wind , swell billow and swim bark ! The storm is up , and all is on the hazard .
BRUTUS : Ho , Lucilius ! hark , a word with you .
LUCILIUS : My lord ? BRUTUS and LUCILIUS converse apart
CASSIUS : Messala !
MESSALA : What says my general ?
CASSIUS : Messala , This is my birth-day ; as this very day Was Cassius born . Give me thy hand , Messala : Be thou my witness that against my will , As Pompey was , am I compell 'd to set Upon one battle all our liberties . You know that I held Epicurus strong And his opinion : now I change my mind , And partly credit things that do presage . Coming from Sardis , on our former ensign Two mighty eagles fell , and there they perch 'd , Gorging and feeding from our soldiers ' hands ; Who to Philippi here consorted us : This morning are they fled away and gone ; And in their steads do ravens , crows and kites , Fly o 'er our heads and downward look on us , As we were sickly prey : their shadows seem A canopy most fatal , under which Our army lies , ready to give up the ghost .
MESSALA : Believe not so .
CASSIUS : I but believe it partly ; For I am fresh of spirit and resolved To meet all perils very constantly .
BRUTUS : Even so , Lucilius .
CASSIUS : Now , most noble Brutus , The gods to-day stand friendly , that we may , Lovers in peace , lead on our days to age ! But since the affairs of men rest still incertain , Let 's reason with the worst that may befall . If we do lose this battle , then is this The very last time we shall speak together : What are you then determined to do ?
BRUTUS : Even by the rule of that philosophy By which I did blame Cato for the death Which he did give himself , I know not how , But I do find it cowardly and vile , For fear of what might fall , so to prevent The time of life : arming myself with patience To stay the providence of some high powers That govern us below .
CASSIUS : Then , if we lose this battle , You are contented to be led in triumph Thorough the streets of Rome ?
BRUTUS : No , Cassius , no : think not , thou noble Roman , That ever Brutus will go bound to Rome ; He bears too great a mind . But this same day Must end that work the ides of March begun ; And whether we shall meet again I know not . Therefore our everlasting farewell take : For ever , and for ever , farewell , Cassius ! If we do meet again , why , we shall smile ; If not , why then , this parting was well made .
