BRUTUS : Is he alone ?
LUCIUS : No , sir , there are moe with him .
BRUTUS : Do you know them ?
LUCIUS : No , sir ; their hats are pluck 'd about their ears , And half their faces buried in their cloaks , That by no means I may discover them By any mark of favour .
BRUTUS : Let ' em enter . Exit LUCIUS They are the faction . O conspiracy , Shamest thou to show thy dangerous brow by night , When evils are most free ? O , then by day Where wilt thou find a cavern dark enough To mask thy monstrous visage ? Seek none , conspiracy ; Hide it in smiles and affability : For if thou path , thy native semblance on , Not Erebus itself were dim enough To hide thee from prevention . Enter the conspirators , CASSIUS , CASCA , DECIUS BRUTUS , CINNA , METELLUS CIMBER , and TREBONIUS
CASSIUS : I think we are too bold upon your rest : Good morrow , Brutus ; do we trouble you ?
BRUTUS : I have been up this hour , awake all night . Know I these men that come along with you ?
CASSIUS : Yes , every man of them , and no man here But honours you ; and every one doth wish You had but that opinion of yourself Which every noble Roman bears of you . This is Trebonius .
BRUTUS : He is welcome hither .
CASSIUS : This , Decius Brutus .
BRUTUS : He is welcome too .
CASSIUS : This , Casca ; this , Cinna ; and this , Metellus Cimber .
BRUTUS : They are all welcome . What watchful cares do interpose themselves Betwixt your eyes and night ?
CASSIUS : Shall I entreat a word ? BRUTUS and CASSIUS whisper
DECIUS BRUTUS : Here lies the east : doth not the day break here ?
CASCA : No .
CINNA : O , pardon , sir , it doth ; and yon gray lines That fret the clouds are messengers of day .
CASCA : You shall confess that you are both deceived . Here , as I point my sword , the sun arises , Which is a great way growing on the south , Weighing the youthful season of the year . Some two months hence up higher toward the north He first presents his fire ; and the high east Stands , as the Capitol , directly here .
BRUTUS : Give me your hands all over , one by one .
CASSIUS : And let us swear our resolution .
BRUTUS : No , not an oath : if not the face of men , The sufferance of our souls , the time 's abuse , -- If these be motives weak , break off betimes , And every man hence to his idle bed ; So let high-sighted tyranny range on , Till each man drop by lottery . But if these , As I am sure they do , bear fire enough To kindle cowards and to steel with valour The melting spirits of women , then , countrymen , What need we any spur but our own cause , To prick us to redress ? what other bond Than secret Romans , that have spoke the word , And will not palter ? and what other oath Than honesty to honesty engaged , That this shall be , or we will fall for it ? Swear priests and cowards and men cautelous , Old feeble carrions and such suffering souls That welcome wrongs ; unto bad causes swear Such creatures as men doubt ; but do not stain The even virtue of our enterprise , Nor the insuppressive mettle of our spirits , To think that or our cause or our performance Did need an oath ; when every drop of blood That every Roman bears , and nobly bears , Is guilty of a several bastardy , If he do break the smallest particle Of any promise that hath pass 'd from him .
CASSIUS : But what of Cicero ? shall we sound him ? I think he will stand very strong with us .
CASCA : Let us not leave him out .
CINNA : No , by no means .
