CASSIUS : Him and his worth and our great need of him You have right well conceited . Let us go , For it is after midnight ; and ere day We will awake him and be sure of him . Enter BRUTUS
BRUTUS : What , Lucius , ho ! I cannot , by the progress of the stars , Give guess how near to day . Lucius , I say ! I would it were my fault to sleep so soundly . When , Lucius , when ? awake , I say ! what , Lucius ! Enter LUCIUS
LUCIUS : Call 'd you , my lord ?
BRUTUS : Get me a taper in my study , Lucius : When it is lighted , come and call me here .
LUCIUS : I will , my lord . Exit
BRUTUS : It must be by his death : and for my part , I know no personal cause to spurn at him , But for the general . He would be crown 'd : How that might change his nature , there 's the question . It is the bright day that brings forth the adder ; And that craves wary walking . Crown him ? --that ; -- And then , I grant , we put a sting in him , That at his will he may do danger with . The abuse of greatness is , when it disjoins Remorse from power : and , to speak truth of Caesar , I have not known when his affections sway 'd More than his reason . But ' tis a common proof , That lowliness is young ambition 's ladder , Whereto the climber-upward turns his face ; But when he once attains the upmost round . He then unto the ladder turns his back , Looks in the clouds , scorning the base degrees By which he did ascend . So Caesar may . Then , lest he may , prevent . And , since the quarrel Will bear no colour for the thing he is , Fashion it thus ; that what he is , augmented , Would run to these and these extremities : And therefore think him as a serpent 's egg Which , hatch 'd , would , as his kind , grow mischievous , And kill him in the shell . Re-enter LUCIUS
LUCIUS : The taper burneth in your closet , sir . Searching the window for a flint , I found This paper , thus seal 'd up ; and , I am sure , It did not lie there when I went to bed . Gives him the letter
BRUTUS : Get you to bed again ; it is not day . Is not to-morrow , boy , the ides of March ?
LUCIUS : I know not , sir .
BRUTUS : Look in the calendar , and bring me word .
LUCIUS : I will , sir . Exit
BRUTUS : The exhalations whizzing in the air Give so much light that I may read by them . Opens the letter and reads ' Brutus , thou sleep 'st : awake , and see thyself . Shall Rome , & c . Speak , strike , redress ! Brutus , thou sleep 'st : awake ! ' Such instigations have been often dropp 'd Where I have took them up . ' Shall Rome , & c . ' Thus must I piece it out : Shall Rome stand under one man 's awe ? What , Rome ? My ancestors did from the streets of Rome The Tarquin drive , when he was call 'd a king . ' Speak , strike , redress ! ' Am I entreated To speak and strike ? O Rome , I make thee promise : If the redress will follow , thou receivest Thy full petition at the hand of Brutus ! Re-enter LUCIUS
LUCIUS : Sir , March is wasted fourteen days . Knocking within
BRUTUS : ' Tis good . Go to the gate ; somebody knocks . Exit LUCIUS Since Cassius first did whet me against Caesar , I have not slept . Between the acting of a dreadful thing And the first motion , all the interim is Like a phantasma , or a hideous dream : The Genius and the mortal instruments Are then in council ; and the state of man , Like to a little kingdom , suffers then The nature of an insurrection . Re-enter LUCIUS
