BRUTUS : Well , to our work alive . What do you think Of marching to Philippi presently ?
CASSIUS : I do not think it good .
BRUTUS : Your reason ?
CASSIUS : This it is : ' Tis better that the enemy seek us : So shall he waste his means , weary his soldiers , Doing himself offence ; whilst we , lying still , Are full of rest , defense , and nimbleness .
BRUTUS : Good reasons must , of force , give place to better . The people ' twixt Philippi and this ground Do stand but in a forced affection ; For they have grudged us contribution : The enemy , marching along by them , By them shall make a fuller number up , Come on refresh 'd , new-added , and encouraged ; From which advantage shall we cut him off , If at Philippi we do face him there , These people at our back .
CASSIUS : Hear me , good brother .
BRUTUS : Under your pardon . You must note beside , That we have tried the utmost of our friends , Our legions are brim-full , our cause is ripe : The enemy increaseth every day ; We , at the height , are ready to decline . There is a tide in the affairs of men , Which , taken at the flood , leads on to fortune ; Omitted , all the voyage of their life Is bound in shallows and in miseries . On such a full sea are we now afloat ; And we must take the current when it serves , Or lose our ventures .
CASSIUS : Then , with your will , go on ; We 'll along ourselves , and meet them at Philippi .
BRUTUS : The deep of night is crept upon our talk , And nature must obey necessity ; Which we will niggard with a little rest . There is no more to say ?
CASSIUS : No more . Good night : Early to-morrow will we rise , and hence .
BRUTUS : Lucius ! Enter LUCIUS My gown . Exit LUCIUS Farewell , good Messala : Good night , Titinius . Noble , noble Cassius , Good night , and good repose .
CASSIUS : O my dear brother ! This was an ill beginning of the night : Never come such division ' tween our souls ! Let it not , Brutus .
BRUTUS : Every thing is well .
CASSIUS : Good night , my lord .
BRUTUS : Good night , good brother .
TITINIUS MESSALA : Good night , Lord Brutus .
BRUTUS : Farewell , every one . Re-enter LUCIUS , with the gown Give me the gown . Where is thy instrument ?
LUCIUS : Here in the tent .
BRUTUS : What , thou speak 'st drowsily ? Poor knave , I blame thee not ; thou art o 'er-watch 'd . Call Claudius and some other of my men : I 'll have them sleep on cushions in my tent .
LUCIUS : Varro and Claudius ! Enter VARRO and CLAUDIUS
VARRO : Calls my lord ?
BRUTUS : I pray you , sirs , lie in my tent and sleep ; It may be I shall raise you by and by On business to my brother Cassius .
VARRO : So please you , we will stand and watch your pleasure .
BRUTUS : I will not have it so : lie down , good sirs ; It may be I shall otherwise bethink me . Look , Lucius , here 's the book I sought for so ; I put it in the pocket of my gown . VARRO and CLAUDIUS lie down
LUCIUS : I was sure your lordship did not give it me .
BRUTUS : Bear with me , good boy , I am much forgetful . Canst thou hold up thy heavy eyes awhile , And touch thy instrument a strain or two ?
LUCIUS : Ay , my lord , an 't please you .
BRUTUS : It does , my boy : I trouble thee too much , but thou art willing .
LUCIUS : It is my duty , sir .
BRUTUS : I should not urge thy duty past thy might ; I know young bloods look for a time of rest .
LUCIUS : I have slept , my lord , already .
