First Citizen : I will hear Brutus speak .
Second Citizen : I will hear Cassius ; and compare their reasons , When severally we hear them rendered . Exit CASSIUS , with some of the Citizens . BRUTUS goes into the pulpit
Third Citizen : The noble Brutus is ascended : silence !
BRUTUS : Be patient till the last . Romans , countrymen , and lovers ! hear me for my cause , and be silent , that you may hear : believe me for mine honour , and have respect to mine honour , that you may believe : censure me in your wisdom , and awake your senses , that you may the better judge . If there be any in this assembly , any dear friend of Caesar 's , to him I say , that Brutus ' love to Caesar was no less than his . If then that friend demand why Brutus rose against Caesar , this is my answer : --Not that I loved Caesar less , but that I loved Rome more . Had you rather Caesar were living and die all slaves , than that Caesar were dead , to live all free men ? As Caesar loved me , I weep for him ; as he was fortunate , I rejoice at it ; as he was valiant , I honour him : but , as he was ambitious , I slew him . There is tears for his love ; joy for his fortune ; honour for his valour ; and death for his ambition . Who is here so base that would be a bondman ? If any , speak ; for him have I offended . Who is here so rude that would not be a Roman ? If any , speak ; for him have I offended . Who is here so vile that will not love his country ? If any , speak ; for him have I offended . I pause for a reply .
All : None , Brutus , none .
BRUTUS : Then none have I offended . I have done no more to Caesar than you shall do to Brutus . The question of his death is enrolled in the Capitol ; his glory not extenuated , wherein he was worthy , nor his offences enforced , for which he suffered death . Enter ANTONY and others , with CAESAR 's body Here comes his body , mourned by Mark Antony : who , though he had no hand in his death , shall receive the benefit of his dying , a place in the commonwealth ; as which of you shall not ? With this I depart , --that , as I slew my best lover for the good of Rome , I have the same dagger for myself , when it shall please my country to need my death .
All : Live , Brutus ! live , live !
First Citizen : Bring him with triumph home unto his house .
Second Citizen : Give him a statue with his ancestors .
Third Citizen : Let him be Caesar .
Fourth Citizen : Caesar 's better parts Shall be crown 'd in Brutus .
First Citizen : We 'll bring him to his house With shouts and clamours .
BRUTUS : My countrymen , --
Second Citizen : Peace , silence ! Brutus speaks .
First Citizen : Peace , ho !
BRUTUS : Good countrymen , let me depart alone , And , for my sake , stay here with Antony : Do grace to Caesar 's corpse , and grace his speech Tending to Caesar 's glories ; which Mark Antony , By our permission , is allow 'd to make . I do entreat you , not a man depart , Save I alone , till Antony have spoke . Exit
First Citizen : Stay , ho ! and let us hear Mark Antony .
Third Citizen : Let him go up into the public chair ; We 'll hear him . Noble Antony , go up .
ANTONY : For Brutus ' sake , I am beholding to you . Goes into the pulpit
Fourth Citizen : What does he say of Brutus ?
Third Citizen : He says , for Brutus ' sake , He finds himself beholding to us all .
Fourth Citizen : ' Twere best he speak no harm of Brutus here .
First Citizen : This Caesar was a tyrant .
