TALBOT : My gracious prince , and honourable peers , Hearing of your arrival in this realm , I have awhile given truce unto my wars , To do my duty to my sovereign : In sign , whereof , this arm , that hath reclaim 'd To your obedience fifty fortresses , Twelve cities and seven walled towns of strength , Beside five hundred prisoners of esteem , Lets fall his sword before your highness ' feet , And with submissive loyalty of heart Ascribes the glory of his conquest got First to my God and next unto your grace . Kneels
KING HENRY VI : Is this the Lord Talbot , uncle Gloucester , That hath so long been resident in France ?
GLOUCESTER : Yes , if it please your majesty , my liege .
KING HENRY VI : Welcome , brave captain and victorious lord ! When I was young , as yet I am not old , I do remember how my father said A stouter champion never handled sword . Long since we were resolved of your truth , Your faithful service and your toil in war ; Yet never have you tasted our reward , Or been reguerdon 'd with so much as thanks , Because till now we never saw your face : Therefore , stand up ; and , for these good deserts , We here create you Earl of Shrewsbury ; And in our coronation take your place .
VERNON : Now , sir , to you , that were so hot at sea , Disgracing of these colours that I wear In honour of my noble Lord of York : Darest thou maintain the former words thou spakest ?
BASSET : Yes , sir ; as well as you dare patronage The envious barking of your saucy tongue Against my lord the Duke of Somerset .
VERNON : Sirrah , thy lord I honour as he is .
BASSET : Why , what is he ? as good a man as York .
VERNON : Hark ye ; not so : in witness , take ye that . Strikes him
BASSET : Villain , thou know 'st the law of arms is such That whoso draws a sword , ' tis present death , Or else this blow should broach thy dearest blood . But I 'll unto his majesty , and crave I may have liberty to venge this wrong ; When thou shalt see I 'll meet thee to thy cost .
VERNON : Well , miscreant , I 'll be there as soon as you ; And , after , meet you sooner than you would . Enter KING HENRY VI , GLOUCESTER , BISHOP OF WINCHESTER , YORK , SUFFOLK , SOMERSET , WARWICK , TALBOT , EXETER , the Governor , of Paris , and others
GLOUCESTER : Lord bishop , set the crown upon his head . BISHOP
OF WINCHESTER : God save King Henry , of that name the sixth !
GLOUCESTER : Now , governor of Paris , take your oath , That you elect no other king but him ; Esteem none friends but such as are his friends , And none your foes but such as shall pretend Malicious practises against his state : This shall ye do , so help you righteous God ! Enter FASTOLFE
FASTOLFE : My gracious sovereign , as I rode from Calais , To haste unto your coronation , A letter was deliver 'd to my hands , Writ to your grace from the Duke of Burgundy .
TALBOT : Shame to the Duke of Burgundy and thee ! I vow 'd , base knight , when I did meet thee next , To tear the garter from thy craven 's leg , Plucking it off Which I have done , because unworthily Thou wast installed in that high degree . Pardon me , princely Henry , and the rest This dastard , at the battle of Patay , When but in all I was six thousand strong And that the French were almost ten to one , Before we met or that a stroke was given , Like to a trusty squire did run away : In which assault we lost twelve hundred men ; Myself and divers gentlemen beside Were there surprised and taken prisoners . Then judge , great lords , if I have done amiss ; Or whether that such cowards ought to wear This ornament of knighthood , yea or no .
