TALBOT : When first this order was ordain 'd , my lords , Knights of the garter were of noble birth , Valiant and virtuous , full of haughty courage , Such as were grown to credit by the wars ; Not fearing death , nor shrinking for distress , But always resolute in most extremes . He then that is not furnish 'd in this sort Doth but usurp the sacred name of knight , Profaning this most honourable order , And should , if I were worthy to be judge , Be quite degraded , like a hedge-born swain That doth presume to boast of gentle blood .
KING HENRY VI : Stain to thy countrymen , thou hear 'st thy doom ! Be packing , therefore , thou that wast a knight : Henceforth we banish thee , on pain of death . Exit FASTOLFE And now , my lord protector , view the letter Sent from our uncle Duke of Burgundy .
GLOUCESTER : What means his grace , that he hath changed his style ? No more but , plain and bluntly , ' To the king ! ' Hath he forgot he is his sovereign ? Or doth this churlish superscription Pretend some alteration in good will ? What 's here ? Reads ' I have , upon especial cause , Moved with compassion of my country 's wreck , Together with the pitiful complaints Of such as your oppression feeds upon , Forsaken your pernicious faction And join 'd with Charles , the rightful King of France . ' O monstrous treachery ! can this be so , That in alliance , amity and oaths , There should be found such false dissembling guile ?
KING HENRY VI : What ! doth my uncle Burgundy revolt ?
GLOUCESTER : He doth , my lord , and is become your foe .
KING HENRY VI : Is that the worst this letter doth contain ?
GLOUCESTER : It is the worst , and all , my lord , he writes .
KING HENRY VI : Why , then , Lord Talbot there shall talk with him And give him chastisement for this abuse . How say you , my lord ? are you not content ?
TALBOT : Content , my liege ! yes , but that I am prevented , I should have begg 'd I might have been employ 'd .
KING HENRY VI : Then gather strength and march unto him straight : Let him perceive how ill we brook his treason And what offence it is to flout his friends .
TALBOT : I go , my lord , in heart desiring still You may behold confusion of your foes . Exit Enter VERNON and BASSET
VERNON : Grant me the combat , gracious sovereign .
BASSET : And me , my lord , grant me the combat too .
YORK : This is my servant : hear him , noble prince .
SOMERSET : And this is mine : sweet Henry , favour him .
KING HENRY VI : Be patient , lords ; and give them leave to speak . Say , gentlemen , what makes you thus exclaim ? And wherefore crave you combat ? or with whom ?
VERNON : With him , my lord ; for he hath done me wrong .
BASSET : And I with him ; for he hath done me wrong .
KING HENRY VI : What is that wrong whereof you both complain ? First let me know , and then I 'll answer you .
BASSET : Crossing the sea from England into France , This fellow here , with envious carping tongue , Upbraided me about the rose I wear ; Saying , the sanguine colour of the leaves Did represent my master 's blushing cheeks , When stubbornly he did repugn the truth About a certain question in the law Argued betwixt the Duke of York and him ; With other vile and ignominious terms : In confutation of which rude reproach And in defence of my lord 's worthiness , I crave the benefit of law of arms .
