GLOUCESTER : Ay , but , I fear me , with a hollow heart.-- See here , my friends and loving countrymen , This token serveth for a flag of truce Betwixt ourselves and all our followers : So help me God , as I dissemble not ! BISHOP
OF WINCHESTER : So help me God , as I intend it not !
KING HENRY VI : O , loving uncle , kind Duke of Gloucester , How joyful am I made by this contract ! Away , my masters ! trouble us no more ; But join in friendship , as your lords have done . First Serving-man Content : I 'll to the surgeon 's . Second Serving-man And so will I. Third Serving-man And I will see what physic the tavern affords .
WARWICK : Accept this scroll , most gracious sovereign , Which in the right of Richard Plantagenet We do exhibit to your majesty .
GLOUCESTER : Well urged , my Lord of Warwick : or sweet prince , And if your grace mark every circumstance , You have great reason to do Richard right ; Especially for those occasions At Eltham Place I told your majesty .
KING HENRY VI : And those occasions , uncle , were of force : Therefore , my loving lords , our pleasure is That Richard be restored to his blood .
WARWICK : Let Richard be restored to his blood ; So shall his father 's wrongs be recompensed . BISHOP
OF WINCHESTER : As will the rest , so willeth Winchester .
KING HENRY VI : If Richard will be true , not that alone But all the whole inheritance I give That doth belong unto the house of York , From whence you spring by lineal descent . RICHARD
PLANTAGENET : Thy humble servant vows obedience And humble service till the point of death .
KING HENRY VI : Stoop then and set your knee against my foot ; And , in reguerdon of that duty done , I gird thee with the valiant sword of York : Rise Richard , like a true Plantagenet , And rise created princely Duke of York . RICHARD
PLANTAGENET : And so thrive Richard as thy foes may fall ! And as my duty springs , so perish they That grudge one thought against your majesty !
ALL : Welcome , high prince , the mighty Duke of York !
SOMERSET : Perish , base prince , ignoble Duke of York !
GLOUCESTER : Now will it best avail your majesty To cross the seas and to be crown 'd in France : The presence of a king engenders love Amongst his subjects and his loyal friends , As it disanimates his enemies .
KING HENRY VI : When Gloucester says the word , King Henry goes ; For friendly counsel cuts off many foes .
GLOUCESTER : Your ships already are in readiness .
EXETER : Ay , we may march in England or in France , Not seeing what is likely to ensue . This late dissension grown betwixt the peers Burns under feigned ashes of forged love And will at last break out into a flame : As fester 'd members rot but by degree , Till bones and flesh and sinews fall away , So will this base and envious discord breed . And now I fear that fatal prophecy Which in the time of Henry named the Fifth Was in the mouth of every sucking babe ; That Henry born at Monmouth should win all And Henry born at Windsor lose all : Which is so plain that Exeter doth wish His days may finish ere that hapless time . Exit Enter JOAN LA PUCELLE disguised , with four Soldiers with sacks upon their backs
JOAN LA PUCELLE : These are the city gates , the gates of Rouen , Through which our policy must make a breach : Take heed , be wary how you place your words ; Talk like the vulgar sort of market men That come to gather money for their corn . If we have entrance , as I hope we shall , And that we find the slothful watch but weak , I 'll by a sign give notice to our friends , That Charles the Dauphin may encounter them .
First Soldier : Our sacks shall be a mean to sack the city , And we be lords and rulers over Rouen ; Therefore we 'll knock . Knocks
