EXETER : Remember , lords , your oaths to Henry sworn , Either to quell the Dauphin utterly , Or bring him in obedience to your yoke .
BEDFORD : I do remember it ; and here take my leave , To go about my preparation . Exit
GLOUCESTER : I 'll to the Tower with all the haste I can , To view the artillery and munition ; And then I will proclaim young Henry king . Exit
EXETER : To Eltham will I , where the young king is , Being ordain 'd his special governor , And for his safety there I 'll best devise . Exit BISHOP
OF WINCHESTER : Each hath his place and function to attend : I am left out ; for me nothing remains . But long I will not be Jack out of office : The king from Eltham I intend to steal And sit at chiefest stern of public weal . Sound a flourish . Enter CHARLES , ALENCON , and REIGNIER , marching with drum and Soldiers
CHARLES : Mars his true moving , even as in the heavens So in the earth , to this day is not known : Late did he shine upon the English side ; Now we are victors ; upon us he smiles . What towns of any moment but we have ? At pleasure here we lie near Orleans ; Otherwhiles the famish 'd English , like pale ghosts , Faintly besiege us one hour in a month .
ALENCON : They want their porridge and their fat bull-beeves : Either they must be dieted like mules And have their provender tied to their mouths Or piteous they will look , like drowned mice .
REIGNIER : Let 's raise the siege : why live we idly here ? Talbot is taken , whom we wont to fear : Remaineth none but mad-brain 'd Salisbury ; And he may well in fretting spend his gall , Nor men nor money hath he to make war .
CHARLES : Sound , sound alarum ! we will rush on them . Now for the honour of the forlorn French ! Him I forgive my death that killeth me When he sees me go back one foot or fly . Here alarum ; they are beaten back by the English with great loss . Re- enter CHARLES , ALENCON , and REIGNIER
CHARLES : Who ever saw the like ? what men have I ! Dogs ! cowards ! dastards ! I would ne 'er have fled , But that they left me ' midst my enemies .
REIGNIER : Salisbury is a desperate homicide ; He fighteth as one weary of his life . The other lords , like lions wanting food , Do rush upon us as their hungry prey .
ALENCON : Froissart , a countryman of ours , records , England all Olivers and Rowlands bred , During the time Edward the Third did reign . More truly now may this be verified ; For none but Samsons and Goliases It sendeth forth to skirmish . One to ten ! Lean , raw-boned rascals ! who would e 'er suppose They had such courage and audacity ?
CHARLES : Let 's leave this town ; for they are hare-brain 'd slaves , And hunger will enforce them to be more eager : Of old I know them ; rather with their teeth The walls they 'll tear down than forsake the siege .
REIGNIER : I think , by some odd gimmors or device Their arms are set like clocks , stiff to strike on ; Else ne 'er could they hold out so as they do . By my consent , we 'll even let them alone .
ALENCON : Be it so . Enter the BASTARD OF ORLEANS
BASTARD OF ORLEANS : Where 's the Prince Dauphin ? I have news for him .
CHARLES : Bastard of Orleans , thrice welcome to us .
