SALISBURY : Yet tell 'st thou not how thou wert entertain 'd .
TALBOT : With scoffs and scorns and contumelious taunts . In open market-place produced they me , To be a public spectacle to all : Here , said they , is the terror of the French , The scarecrow that affrights our children so . Then broke I from the officers that led me , And with my nails digg 'd stones out of the ground , To hurl at the beholders of my shame : My grisly countenance made others fly ; None durst come near for fear of sudden death . In iron walls they deem 'd me not secure ; So great fear of my name ' mongst them was spread , That they supposed I could rend bars of steel , And spurn in pieces posts of adamant : Wherefore a guard of chosen shot I had , That walked about me every minute-while ; And if I did but stir out of my bed , Ready they were to shoot me to the heart . Enter the Boy with a linstock
SALISBURY : I grieve to hear what torments you endured , But we will be revenged sufficiently Now it is supper-time in Orleans : Here , through this grate , I count each one and view the Frenchmen how they fortify : Let us look in ; the sight will much delight thee . Sir Thomas Gargrave , and Sir William Glansdale , Let me have your express opinions Where is best place to make our battery next .
GARGRAVE : I think , at the north gate ; for there stand lords .
GLANSDALE : And I , here , at the bulwark of the bridge .
TALBOT : For aught I see , this city must be famish 'd , Or with light skirmishes enfeebled . Here they shoot . SALISBURY and GARGRAVE fall
SALISBURY : O Lord , have mercy on us , wretched sinners !
GARGRAVE : O Lord , have mercy on me , woful man !
TALBOT : What chance is this that suddenly hath cross 'd us ? Speak , Salisbury ; at least , if thou canst speak : How farest thou , mirror of all martial men ? One of thy eyes and thy cheek 's side struck off ! Accursed tower ! accursed fatal hand That hath contrived this woful tragedy ! In thirteen battles Salisbury o 'ercame ; Henry the Fifth he first train 'd to the wars ; Whilst any trump did sound , or drum struck up , His sword did ne 'er leave striking in the field . Yet livest thou , Salisbury ? though thy speech doth fail , One eye thou hast , to look to heaven for grace : The sun with one eye vieweth all the world . Heaven , be thou gracious to none alive , If Salisbury wants mercy at thy hands ! Bear hence his body ; I will help to bury it . Sir Thomas Gargrave , hast thou any life ? Speak unto Talbot ; nay , look up to him . Salisbury , cheer thy spirit with this comfort ; Thou shalt not die whiles-- He beckons with his hand and smiles on me . As who should say ' When I am dead and gone , Remember to avenge me on the French . ' Plantagenet , I will ; and like thee , Nero , Play on the lute , beholding the towns burn : Wretched shall France be only in my name . Here an alarum , and it thunders and lightens What stir is this ? what tumult 's in the heavens ? Whence cometh this alarum and the noise ? Enter a Messenger
Messenger : My lord , my lord , the French have gathered head : The Dauphin , with one Joan la Pucelle join 'd , A holy prophetess new risen up , Is come with a great power to raise the siege . Here SALISBURY lifteth himself up and groans
