YORK : O God , that Somerset , who in proud heart Doth stop my cornets , were in Talbot 's place ! So should we save a valiant gentleman By forfeiting a traitor and a coward . Mad ire and wrathful fury makes me weep , That thus we die , while remiss traitors sleep .
LUCY : O , send some succor to the distress 'd lord !
YORK : He dies , we lose ; I break my warlike word ; We mourn , France smiles ; we lose , they daily get ; All ' long of this vile traitor Somerset .
LUCY : Then God take mercy on brave Talbot 's soul ; And on his son young John , who two hours since I met in travel toward his warlike father ! This seven years did not Talbot see his son ; And now they meet where both their lives are done .
YORK : Alas , what joy shall noble Talbot have To bid his young son welcome to his grave ? Away ! vexation almost stops my breath , That sunder 'd friends greet in the hour of death . Lucy , farewell ; no more my fortune can , But curse the cause I cannot aid the man . Maine , Blois , Poictiers , and Tours , are won away , ' Long all of Somerset and his delay . Exit , with his soldiers
LUCY : Thus , while the vulture of sedition Feeds in the bosom of such great commanders , Sleeping neglection doth betray to loss The conquest of our scarce cold conqueror , That ever living man of memory , Henry the Fifth : whiles they each other cross , Lives , honours , lands and all hurry to loss . Exit Enter SOMERSET , with his army ; a Captain of TALBOT 's with him
SOMERSET : It is too late ; I cannot send them now : This expedition was by York and Talbot Too rashly plotted : all our general force Might with a sally of the very town Be buckled with : the over-daring Talbot Hath sullied all his gloss of former honour By this unheedful , desperate , wild adventure : York set him on to fight and die in shame , That , Talbot dead , great York might bear the name .
Captain : Here is Sir William Lucy , who with me Set from our o 'ermatch 'd forces forth for aid . Enter Sir William LUCY
SOMERSET : How now , Sir William ! whither were you sent ?
LUCY : Whither , my lord ? from bought and sold Lord Talbot ; Who , ring 'd about with bold adversity , Cries out for noble York and Somerset , To beat assailing death from his weak legions : And whiles the honourable captain there Drops bloody sweat from his war-wearied limbs , And , in advantage lingering , looks for rescue , You , his false hopes , the trust of England 's honour , Keep off aloof with worthless emulation . Let not your private discord keep away The levied succors that should lend him aid , While he , renowned noble gentleman , Yields up his life unto a world of odds : Orleans the Bastard , Charles , Burgundy , Alencon , Reignier , compass him about , And Talbot perisheth by your default .
SOMERSET : York set him on ; York should have sent him aid .
LUCY : And York as fast upon your grace exclaims ; Swearing that you withhold his levied host , Collected for this expedition .
SOMERSET : York lies ; he might have sent and had the horse ; I owe him little duty , and less love ; And take foul scorn to fawn on him by sending .
LUCY : The fraud of England , not the force of France , Hath now entrapp 'd the noble-minded Talbot : Never to England shall he bear his life ; But dies , betray 'd to fortune by your strife .
SOMERSET : Come , go ; I will dispatch the horsemen straight : Within six hours they will be at his aid .
LUCY : Too late comes rescue : he is ta 'en or slain ; For fly he could not , if he would have fled ; And fly would Talbot never , though he might .
SOMERSET : If he be dead , brave Talbot , then adieu !
