GLOUCESTER : And for the proffer of my lord your master , I have inform 'd his highness so at large As liking of the lady 's virtuous gifts , Her beauty and the value of her dower , He doth intend she shall be England 's queen .
KING HENRY VI : In argument and proof of which contract , Bear her this jewel , pledge of my affection . And so , my lord protector , see them guarded And safely brought to Dover ; where inshipp 'd Commit them to the fortune of the sea . CARDINAL
OF WINCHESTER : Stay , my lord legate : you shall first receive The sum of money which I promised Should be deliver 'd to his holiness For clothing me in these grave ornaments .
Legate : I will attend upon your lordship 's leisure . CARDINAL
OF WINCHESTER : Now Winchester will not submit , I trow , Or be inferior to the proudest peer . Humphrey of Gloucester , thou shalt well perceive That , neither in birth or for authority , The bishop will be overborne by thee : I 'll either make thee stoop and bend thy knee , Or sack this country with a mutiny . Enter CHARLES , BURGUNDY , ALENCON , BASTARD OF ORLEANS , REIGNIER , JOAN LA PUCELLE , and forces
CHARLES : These news , my lord , may cheer our drooping spirits : ' Tis said the stout Parisians do revolt And turn again unto the warlike French .
ALENCON : Then march to Paris , royal Charles of France , And keep not back your powers in dalliance .
JOAN LA PUCELLE : Peace be amongst them , if they turn to us ; Else , ruin combat with their palaces ! Enter Scout
Scout : Success unto our valiant general , And happiness to his accomplices !
CHARLES : What tidings send our scouts ? I prithee , speak .
Scout : The English army , that divided was Into two parties , is now conjoined in one , And means to give you battle presently .
CHARLES : Somewhat too sudden , sirs , the warning is ; But we will presently provide for them .
BURGUNDY : I trust the ghost of Talbot is not there : Now he is gone , my lord , you need not fear .
JOAN LA PUCELLE : Of all base passions , fear is most accursed . Command the conquest , Charles , it shall be thine , Let Henry fret and all the world repine .
CHARLES : Then on , my lords ; and France be fortunate ! Alarum . Excursions . Enter JOAN LA PUCELLE
JOAN LA PUCELLE : The regent conquers , and the Frenchmen fly . Now help , ye charming spells and periapts ; And ye choice spirits that admonish me And give me signs of future accidents . Thunder You speedy helpers , that are substitutes Under the lordly monarch of the north , Appear and aid me in this enterprise . Enter Fiends This speedy and quick appearance argues proof Of your accustom 'd diligence to me . Now , ye familiar spirits , that are cull 'd Out of the powerful regions under earth , Help me this once , that France may get the field . They walk , and speak not O , hold me not with silence over-long ! Where I was wont to feed you with my blood , I 'll lop a member off and give it you In earnest of further benefit , So you do condescend to help me now . They hang their heads No hope to have redress ? My body shall Pay recompense , if you will grant my suit . They shake their heads Cannot my body nor blood-sacrifice Entreat you to your wonted furtherance ? Then take my soul , my body , soul and all , Before that England give the French the foil . They depart See , they forsake me ! Now the time is come That France must vail her lofty-plumed crest And let her head fall into England 's lap . My ancient incantations are too weak , And hell too strong for me to buckle with : Now , France , thy glory droopeth to the dust . Exit Excursions . Re-enter JOAN LA PUCELLE fighting hand to hand with YORK . JOAN LA PUCELLE is taken . The French fly .
