WARWICK : The greatest miracle that e 'er ye wrought : Is all your strict preciseness come to this ?
YORK : She and the Dauphin have been juggling : I did imagine what would be her refuge .
WARWICK : Well , go to ; we 'll have no bastards live ; Especially since Charles must father it .
JOAN LA PUCELLE : You are deceived ; my child is none of his : It was Alencon that enjoy 'd my love .
YORK : Alencon ! that notorious Machiavel ! It dies , an if it had a thousand lives .
JOAN LA PUCELLE : O , give me leave , I have deluded you : ' Twas neither Charles nor yet the duke I named , But Reignier , king of Naples , that prevail 'd .
WARWICK : A married man ! that 's most intolerable .
YORK : Why , here 's a girl ! I think she knows not well , There were so many , whom she may accuse .
WARWICK : It 's sign she hath been liberal and free .
YORK : And yet , forsooth , she is a virgin pure . Strumpet , thy words condemn thy brat and thee : Use no entreaty , for it is in vain .
JOAN LA PUCELLE : Then lead me hence ; with whom I leave my curse : May never glorious sun reflex his beams Upon the country where you make abode ; But darkness and the gloomy shade of death Environ you , till mischief and despair Drive you to break your necks or hang yourselves ! Exit , guarded
YORK : Break thou in pieces and consume to ashes , Thou foul accursed minister of hell ! Enter CARDINAL OF WINCHESTER , attended CARDINAL
OF WINCHESTER : Lord regent , I do greet your excellence With letters of commission from the king . For know , my lords , the states of Christendom , Moved with remorse of these outrageous broils , Have earnestly implored a general peace Betwixt our nation and the aspiring French ; And here at hand the Dauphin and his train Approacheth , to confer about some matter .
YORK : Is all our travail turn 'd to this effect ? After the slaughter of so many peers , So many captains , gentlemen and soldiers , That in this quarrel have been overthrown And sold their bodies for their country 's benefit , Shall we at last conclude effeminate peace ? Have we not lost most part of all the towns , By treason , falsehood and by treachery , Our great progenitors had conquered ? O Warwick , Warwick ! I foresee with grief The utter loss of all the realm of France .
WARWICK : Be patient , York : if we conclude a peace , It shall be with such strict and severe covenants As little shall the Frenchmen gain thereby . Enter CHARLES , ALENCON , BASTARD OF ORLEANS , REIGNIER , and others
CHARLES : Since , lords of England , it is thus agreed That peaceful truce shall be proclaim 'd in France , We come to be informed by yourselves What the conditions of that league must be .
YORK : Speak , Winchester ; for boiling choler chokes The hollow passage of my poison 'd voice , By sight of these our baleful enemies . CARDINAL
OF WINCHESTER : Charles , and the rest , it is enacted thus : That , in regard King Henry gives consent , Of mere compassion and of lenity , To ease your country of distressful war , And suffer you to breathe in fruitful peace , You shall become true liegemen to his crown : And Charles , upon condition thou wilt swear To pay him tribute , submit thyself , Thou shalt be placed as viceroy under him , And still enjoy thy regal dignity .
ALENCON : Must he be then as shadow of himself ? Adorn his temples with a coronet , And yet , in substance and authority , Retain but privilege of a private man ? This proffer is absurd and reasonless .
