CHARLES : Was Mahomet inspired with a dove ? Thou with an eagle art inspired then . Helen , the mother of great Constantine , Nor yet Saint Philip 's daughters , were like thee . Bright star of Venus , fall 'n down on the earth , How may I reverently worship thee enough ?
ALENCON : Leave off delays , and let us raise the siege .
REIGNIER : Woman , do what thou canst to save our honours ; Drive them from Orleans and be immortalized .
CHARLES : Presently we 'll try : come , let 's away about it : No prophet will I trust , if she prove false . Enter GLOUCESTER , with his Serving-men in blue coats
GLOUCESTER : I am come to survey the Tower this day : Since Henry 's death , I fear , there is conveyance . Where be these warders , that they wait not here ? Open the gates ; ' tis Gloucester that calls .
First Warder : Who 's there that knocks so imperiously ? First Serving-Man It is the noble Duke of Gloucester .
Second Warder : Whoe 'er he be , you may not be let in . First Serving-Man Villains , answer you so the lord protector ?
First Warder : The Lord protect him ! so we answer him : We do no otherwise than we are will 'd .
GLOUCESTER : Who willed you ? or whose will stands but mine ? There 's none protector of the realm but I. Break up the gates , I 'll be your warrantize . Shall I be flouted thus by dunghill grooms ? Gloucester 's men rush at the Tower Gates , and WOODVILE the Lieutenant speaks within
WOODVILE : What noise is this ? what traitors have we here ?
GLOUCESTER : Lieutenant , is it you whose voice I hear ? Open the gates ; here 's Gloucester that would enter .
WOODVILE : Have patience , noble duke ; I may not open ; The Cardinal of Winchester forbids : From him I have express commandment That thou nor none of thine shall be let in .
GLOUCESTER : Faint-hearted Woodvile , prizest him ' fore me ? Arrogant Winchester , that haughty prelate , Whom Henry , our late sovereign , ne 'er could brook ? Thou art no friend to God or to the king : Open the gates , or I 'll shut thee out shortly . Serving-Men Open the gates unto the lord protector , Or we 'll burst them open , if that you come not quickly . Enter to the Protector at the Tower Gates BISHOP OF WINCHESTER and his men in tawny coats BISHOP
OF WINCHESTER : How now , ambitious Humphry ! what means this ?
GLOUCESTER : Peel 'd priest , dost thou command me to be shut out ? BISHOP
OF WINCHESTER : I do , thou most usurping proditor , And not protector , of the king or realm .
GLOUCESTER : Stand back , thou manifest conspirator , Thou that contrivedst to murder our dead lord ; Thou that givest whores indulgences to sin : I 'll canvass thee in thy broad cardinal 's hat , If thou proceed in this thy insolence . BISHOP
OF WINCHESTER : Nay , stand thou back , I will not budge a foot : This be Damascus , be thou cursed Cain , To slay thy brother Abel , if thou wilt .
GLOUCESTER : I will not slay thee , but I 'll drive thee back : Thy scarlet robes as a child 's bearing-cloth I 'll use to carry thee out of this place . BISHOP
OF WINCHESTER : Do what thou darest ; I beard thee to thy face .
GLOUCESTER : What ! am I dared and bearded to my face ? Draw , men , for all this privileged place ; Blue coats to tawny coats . Priest , beware your beard , I mean to tug it and to cuff you soundly : Under my feet I stamp thy cardinal 's hat : In spite of pope or dignities of church , Here by the cheeks I 'll drag thee up and down . BISHOP
OF WINCHESTER : Gloucester , thou wilt answer this before the pope .
