BEDFORD : Hung be the heavens with black , yield day to night ! Comets , importing change of times and states , Brandish your crystal tresses in the sky , And with them scourge the bad revolting stars That have consented unto Henry 's death ! King Henry the Fifth , too famous to live long ! England ne 'er lost a king of so much worth .
GLOUCESTER : England ne 'er had a king until his time . Virtue he had , deserving to command : His brandish 'd sword did blind men with his beams : His arms spread wider than a dragon 's wings ; His sparking eyes , replete with wrathful fire , More dazzled and drove back his enemies Than mid-day sun fierce bent against their faces . What should I say ? his deeds exceed all speech : He ne 'er lift up his hand but conquered .
EXETER : We mourn in black : why mourn we not in blood ? Henry is dead and never shall revive : Upon a wooden coffin we attend , And death 's dishonourable victory We with our stately presence glorify , Like captives bound to a triumphant car . What ! shall we curse the planets of mishap That plotted thus our glory 's overthrow ? Or shall we think the subtle-witted French Conjurers and sorcerers , that afraid of him By magic verses have contrived his end ? BISHOP
OF WINCHESTER : He was a king bless 'd of the King of kings . Unto the French the dreadful judgement-day So dreadful will not be as was his sight . The battles of the Lord of hosts he fought : The church 's prayers made him so prosperous .
GLOUCESTER : The church ! where is it ? Had not churchmen pray 'd , His thread of life had not so soon decay 'd : None do you like but an effeminate prince , Whom , like a school-boy , you may over-awe . BISHOP
OF WINCHESTER : Gloucester , whate 'er we like , thou art protector And lookest to command the prince and realm . Thy wife is proud ; she holdeth thee in awe , More than God or religious churchmen may .
GLOUCESTER : Name not religion , for thou lovest the flesh , And ne 'er throughout the year to church thou go 'st Except it be to pray against thy foes .
BEDFORD : Cease , cease these jars and rest your minds in peace : Let 's to the altar : heralds , wait on us : Instead of gold , we 'll offer up our arms : Since arms avail not now that Henry 's dead . Posterity , await for wretched years , When at their mothers ' moist eyes babes shall suck , Our isle be made a nourish of salt tears , And none but women left to wail the dead . Henry the Fifth , thy ghost I invocate : Prosper this realm , keep it from civil broils , Combat with adverse planets in the heavens ! A far more glorious star thy soul will make Than Julius Caesar or bright-- Enter a Messenger
Messenger : My honourable lords , health to you all ! Sad tidings bring I to you out of France , Of loss , of slaughter and discomfiture : Guienne , Champagne , Rheims , Orleans , Paris , Guysors , Poictiers , are all quite lost .
BEDFORD : What say 'st thou , man , before dead Henry 's corse ? Speak softly , or the loss of those great towns Will make him burst his lead and rise from death .
GLOUCESTER : Is Paris lost ? is Rouen yielded up ? If Henry were recall 'd to life again , These news would cause him once more yield the ghost .
EXETER : How were they lost ? what treachery was used ?
