EXETER : Were our tears wanting to this funeral , These tidings would call forth their flowing tides .
BEDFORD : Me they concern ; Regent I am of France . Give me my steeled coat . I 'll fight for France . Away with these disgraceful wailing robes ! Wounds will I lend the French instead of eyes , To weep their intermissive miseries . Enter to them another Messenger
Messenger : Lords , view these letters full of bad mischance . France is revolted from the English quite , Except some petty towns of no import : The Dauphin Charles is crowned king of Rheims ; The Bastard of Orleans with him is join 'd ; Reignier , Duke of Anjou , doth take his part ; The Duke of Alencon flieth to his side .
EXETER : The Dauphin crowned king ! all fly to him ! O , whither shall we fly from this reproach ?
GLOUCESTER : We will not fly , but to our enemies ' throats . Bedford , if thou be slack , I 'll fight it out .
BEDFORD : Gloucester , why doubt 'st thou of my forwardness ? An army have I muster 'd in my thoughts , Wherewith already France is overrun . Enter another Messenger
Messenger : My gracious lords , to add to your laments , Wherewith you now bedew King Henry 's hearse , I must inform you of a dismal fight Betwixt the stout Lord Talbot and the French . BISHOP
OF WINCHESTER : What ! wherein Talbot overcame ? is 't so ?
Messenger : O , no ; wherein Lord Talbot was o 'erthrown : The circumstance I 'll tell you more at large . The tenth of August last this dreadful lord , Retiring from the siege of Orleans , Having full scarce six thousand in his troop . By three and twenty thousand of the French Was round encompassed and set upon . No leisure had he to enrank his men ; He wanted pikes to set before his archers ; Instead whereof sharp stakes pluck 'd out of hedges They pitched in the ground confusedly , To keep the horsemen off from breaking in . More than three hours the fight continued ; Where valiant Talbot above human thought Enacted wonders with his sword and lance : Hundreds he sent to hell , and none durst stand him ; Here , there , and every where , enraged he flew : The French exclaim 'd , the devil was in arms ; All the whole army stood agazed on him : His soldiers spying his undaunted spirit A Talbot ! a Talbot ! cried out amain And rush 'd into the bowels of the battle . Here had the conquest fully been seal 'd up , If Sir John Fastolfe had not play 'd the coward : He , being in the vaward , placed behind With purpose to relieve and follow them , Cowardly fled , not having struck one stroke . Hence grew the general wreck and massacre ; Enclosed were they with their enemies : A base Walloon , to win the Dauphin 's grace , Thrust Talbot with a spear into the back , Whom all France with their chief assembled strength Durst not presume to look once in the face .
BEDFORD : Is Talbot slain ? then I will slay myself , For living idly here in pomp and ease , Whilst such a worthy leader , wanting aid , Unto his dastard foemen is betray 'd .
Messenger : O no , he lives ; but is took prisoner , And Lord Scales with him and Lord Hungerford : Most of the rest slaughter 'd or took likewise .
BEDFORD : His ransom there is none but I shall pay : I 'll hale the Dauphin headlong from his throne : His crown shall be the ransom of my friend ; Four of their lords I 'll change for one of ours . Farewell , my masters ; to my task will I ; Bonfires in France forthwith I am to make , To keep our great Saint George 's feast withal : Ten thousand soldiers with me I will take , Whose bloody deeds shall make all Europe quake .
