JOAN LA PUCELLE : Changed to a worser shape thou canst not be .
YORK : O , Charles the Dauphin is a proper man ; No shape but his can please your dainty eye .
JOAN LA PUCELLE : A plaguing mischief light on Charles and thee ! And may ye both be suddenly surprised By bloody hands , in sleeping on your beds !
YORK : Fell banning hag , enchantress , hold thy tongue !
JOAN LA PUCELLE : I prithee , give me leave to curse awhile .
YORK : Curse , miscreant , when thou comest to the stake . Alarum . Enter SUFFOLK with MARGARET in his hand
SUFFOLK : Be what thou wilt , thou art my prisoner . Gazes on her O fairest beauty , do not fear nor fly ! For I will touch thee but with reverent hands ; I kiss these fingers for eternal peace , And lay them gently on thy tender side . Who art thou ? say , that I may honour thee .
MARGARET : Margaret my name , and daughter to a king , The King of Naples , whosoe 'er thou art .
SUFFOLK : An earl I am , and Suffolk am I call 'd . Be not offended , nature 's miracle , Thou art allotted to be ta 'en by me : So doth the swan her downy cygnets save , Keeping them prisoner underneath her wings . Yet , if this servile usage once offend . Go , and be free again , as Suffolk 's friend . She is going O , stay ! I have no power to let her pass ; My hand would free her , but my heart says no As plays the sun upon the glassy streams , Twinkling another counterfeited beam , So seems this gorgeous beauty to mine eyes . Fain would I woo her , yet I dare not speak : I 'll call for pen and ink , and write my mind . Fie , de la Pole ! disable not thyself ; Hast not a tongue ? is she not here ? Wilt thou be daunted at a woman 's sight ? Ay , beauty 's princely majesty is such , Confounds the tongue and makes the senses rough .
MARGARET : Say , Earl of Suffolk--if thy name be so-- What ransom must I pay before I pass ? For I perceive I am thy prisoner .
SUFFOLK : How canst thou tell she will deny thy suit , Before thou make a trial of her love ?
MARGARET : Why speak 'st thou not ? what ransom must I pay ?
SUFFOLK : She 's beautiful , and therefore to be woo 'd ; She is a woman , therefore to be won .
MARGARET : Wilt thou accept of ransom ? yea , or no .
SUFFOLK : Fond man , remember that thou hast a wife ; Then how can Margaret be thy paramour ?
MARGARET : I were best to leave him , for he will not hear .
SUFFOLK : There all is marr 'd ; there lies a cooling card .
MARGARET : He talks at random ; sure , the man is mad .
SUFFOLK : And yet a dispensation may be had .
MARGARET : And yet I would that you would answer me .
SUFFOLK : I 'll win this Lady Margaret . For whom ? Why , for my king : tush , that 's a wooden thing !
MARGARET : He talks of wood : it is some carpenter .
SUFFOLK : Yet so my fancy may be satisfied , And peace established between these realms But there remains a scruple in that too ; For though her father be the King of Naples , Duke of Anjou and Maine , yet is he poor , And our nobility will scorn the match .
MARGARET : Hear ye , captain , are you not at leisure ?
SUFFOLK : It shall be so , disdain they ne 'er so much . Henry is youthful and will quickly yield . Madam , I have a secret to reveal .
MARGARET : What though I be enthrall 'd ? he seems a knight , And will not any way dishonour me .
SUFFOLK : Lady , vouchsafe to listen what I say .
MARGARET : Perhaps I shall be rescued by the French ; And then I need not crave his courtesy .
