MARGARET : Tush , women have been captivate ere now .
SUFFOLK : Lady , wherefore talk you so ?
MARGARET : I cry you mercy , ' tis but Quid for Quo .
SUFFOLK : Say , gentle princess , would you not suppose Your bondage happy , to be made a queen ?
MARGARET : To be a queen in bondage is more vile Than is a slave in base servility ; For princes should be free .
SUFFOLK : And so shall you , If happy England 's royal king be free .
MARGARET : Why , what concerns his freedom unto me ?
SUFFOLK : I 'll undertake to make thee Henry 's queen , To put a golden sceptre in thy hand And set a precious crown upon thy head , If thou wilt condescend to be my--
MARGARET : What ?
SUFFOLK : His love .
MARGARET : I am unworthy to be Henry 's wife .
SUFFOLK : No , gentle madam ; I unworthy am To woo so fair a dame to be his wife , And have no portion in the choice myself . How say you , madam , are ye so content ?
MARGARET : An if my father please , I am content .
SUFFOLK : Then call our captains and our colours forth . And , madam , at your father 's castle walls We 'll crave a parley , to confer with him . A parley sounded . Enter REIGNIER on the walls See , Reignier , see , thy daughter prisoner !
REIGNIER : To whom ?
SUFFOLK : To me .
REIGNIER : Suffolk , what remedy ? I am a soldier , and unapt to weep , Or to exclaim on fortune 's fickleness .
SU FFOLK : Yes , there is remedy enough , my lord : Consent , and for thy honour give consent , Thy daughter shall be wedded to my king ; Whom I with pain have woo 'd and won thereto ; And this her easy-held imprisonment Hath gained thy daughter princely liberty .
REIGNIER : Speaks Suffolk as he thinks ?
SUFFOLK : Fair Margaret knows That Suffolk doth not flatter , face , or feign .
REIGNIER : Upon thy princely warrant , I descend To give thee answer of thy just demand . Exit from the walls
SUFFOLK : And here I will expect thy coming . Trumpets sound . Enter REIGNIER , below
REIGNIER : Welcome , brave earl , into our territories : Command in Anjou what your honour pleases .
SUFFOLK : Thanks , Reignier , happy for so sweet a child , Fit to be made companion with a king : What answer makes your grace unto my suit ?
REIGNIER : Since thou dost deign to woo her little worth To be the princely bride of such a lord ; Upon condition I may quietly Enjoy mine own , the country Maine and Anjou , Free from oppression or the stroke of war , My daughter shall be Henry 's , if he please .
SUFFOLK : That is her ransom ; I deliver her ; And those two counties I will undertake Your grace shall well and quietly enjoy .
REIGNIER : And I again , in Henry 's royal name , As deputy unto that gracious king , Give thee her hand , for sign of plighted faith .
SUFFOLK : Reignier of France , I give thee kingly thanks , Because this is in traffic of a king . Aside And yet , methinks , I could be well content To be mine own attorney in this case . I 'll over then to England with this news , And make this marriage to be solemnized . So farewell , Reignier : set this diamond safe In golden palaces , as it becomes .
REIGNIER : I do embrace thee , as I would embrace The Christian prince , King Henry , were he here .
MARGARET : Farewell , my lord : good wishes , praise and prayers Shall Suffolk ever have of Margaret . Going
SUFFOLK : Farewell , sweet madam : but hark you , Margaret ; No princely commendations to my king ?
MARGARET : Such commendations as becomes a maid , A virgin and his servant , say to him .
SUFFOLK : Words sweetly placed and modestly directed . But madam , I must trouble you again ; No loving token to his majesty ?
