CHARLES : For prisoners ask 'st thou ? hell our prison is . But tell me whom thou seek 'st .
LUCY : But where 's the great Alcides of the field , Valiant Lord Talbot , Earl of Shrewsbury , Created , for his rare success in arms , Great Earl of Washford , Waterford and Valence ; Lord Talbot of Goodrig and Urchinfield , Lord Strange of Blackmere , Lord Verdun of Alton , Lord Cromwell of Wingfield , Lord Furnival of Sheffield , The thrice-victorious Lord of Falconbridge ; Knight of the noble order of Saint George , Worthy Saint Michael and the Golden Fleece ; Great marshal to Henry the Sixth Of all his wars within the realm of France ?
JOAN LA PUCELLE : Here is a silly stately style indeed ! The Turk , that two and fifty kingdoms hath , Writes not so tedious a style as this . Him that thou magnifiest with all these titles Stinking and fly-blown lies here at our feet .
LUCY : Is Talbot slain , the Frenchmen 's only scourge , Your kingdom 's terror and black Nemesis ? O , were mine eyeballs into bullets turn 'd , That I in rage might shoot them at your faces ! O , that I could but call these dead to life ! It were enough to fright the realm of France : Were but his picture left amongst you here , It would amaze the proudest of you all . Give me their bodies , that I may bear them hence And give them burial as beseems their worth .
JOAN LA PUCELLE : I think this upstart is old Talbot 's ghost , He speaks with such a proud commanding spirit . For God 's sake let him have ' em ; to keep them here , They would but stink , and putrefy the air .
CHARLES : Go , take their bodies hence .
LUCY : I 'll bear them hence ; but from their ashes shall be rear 'd A phoenix that shall make all France afeard .
CHARLES : So we be rid of them , do with ' em what thou wilt . And now to Paris , in this conquering vein : All will be ours , now bloody Talbot 's slain . Sennet . Enter KING HENRY VI , GLOUCESTER , and EXETER
KING HENRY VI : Have you perused the letters from the pope , The emperor and the Earl of Armagnac ?
GLOUCESTER : I have , my lord : and their intent is this : They humbly sue unto your excellence To have a godly peace concluded of Between the realms of England and of France .
KING HENRY VI : How doth your grace affect their motion ?
GLOUCESTER : Well , my good lord ; and as the only means To stop effusion of our Christian blood And ' stablish quietness on every side .
KING HENRY VI : Ay , marry , uncle ; for I always thought It was both impious and unnatural That such immanity and bloody strife Should reign among professors of one faith .
GLOUCESTER : Beside , my lord , the sooner to effect And surer bind this knot of amity , The Earl of Armagnac , near knit to Charles , A man of great authority in France , Proffers his only daughter to your grace In marriage , with a large and sumptuous dowry .
KING HENRY VI : Marriage , uncle ! alas , my years are young ! And fitter is my study and my books Than wanton dalliance with a paramour . Yet call the ambassador ; and , as you please , So let them have their answers every one : I shall be well content with any choice Tends to God 's glory and my country 's weal . Enter CARDINAL OF WINCHESTER in Cardinal 's habit , a Legate and two Ambassadors
EXETER : What ! is my Lord of Winchester install 'd , And call 'd unto a cardinal 's degree ? Then I perceive that will be verified Henry the Fifth did sometime prophesy , ' If once he come to be a cardinal , He 'll make his cap co-equal with the crown . ' 
