JOHN TALBOT : The sword of Orleans hath not made me smart ; These words of yours draw life-blood from my heart : On that advantage , bought with such a shame , To save a paltry life and slay bright fame , Before young Talbot from old Talbot fly , The coward horse that bears me fail and die ! And like me to the peasant boys of France , To be shame 's scorn and subject of mischance ! Surely , by all the glory you have won , An if I fly , I am not Talbot 's son : Then talk no more of flight , it is no boot ; If son to Talbot , die at Talbot 's foot .
TALBOT : Then follow thou thy desperate sire of Crete , Thou Icarus ; thy life to me is sweet : If thou wilt fight , fight by thy father 's side ; And , commendable proved , let 's die in pride . Alarum : excursions . Enter TALBOT led by a Servant
TALBOT : Where is my other life ? mine own is gone ; O , where 's young Talbot ? where is valiant John ? Triumphant death , smear 'd with captivity , Young Talbot 's valour makes me smile at thee : When he perceived me shrink and on my knee , His bloody sword he brandish 'd over me , And , like a hungry lion , did commence Rough deeds of rage and stern impatience ; But when my angry guardant stood alone , Tendering my ruin and assail 'd of none , Dizzy-eyed fury and great rage of heart Suddenly made him from my side to start Into the clustering battle of the French ; And in that sea of blood my boy did drench His over-mounting spirit , and there died , My Icarus , my blossom , in his pride .
Servant : O , my dear lord , lo , where your son is borne ! Enter Soldiers , with the body of JOHN TALBOT
TALBOT : Thou antic death , which laugh 'st us here to scorn , Anon , from thy insulting tyranny , Coupled in bonds of perpetuity , Two Talbots , winged through the lither sky , In thy despite shall ' scape mortality . O , thou , whose wounds become hard-favour 'd death , Speak to thy father ere thou yield thy breath ! Brave death by speaking , whether he will or no ; Imagine him a Frenchman and thy foe . Poor boy ! he smiles , methinks , as who should say , Had death been French , then death had died to-day . Come , come and lay him in his father 's arms : My spirit can no longer bear these harms . Soldiers , adieu ! I have what I would have , Now my old arms are young John Talbot 's grave . Dies Enter CHARLES , ALENCON , BURGUNDY , BASTARD OF ORLEANS , JOAN LA PUCELLE , and forces
CHARLES : Had York and Somerset brought rescue in , We should have found a bloody day of this .
BASTARD OF ORLEANS : How the young whelp of Talbot 's , raging-wood , Did flesh his puny sword in Frenchmen 's blood !
JOAN LA PUCELLE : Once I encounter 'd him , and thus I said : ' Thou maiden youth , be vanquish 'd by a maid : ' But , with a proud majestical high scorn , He answer 'd thus : ' Young Talbot was not born To be the pillage of a giglot wench : ' So , rushing in the bowels of the French , He left me proudly , as unworthy fight .
BURGUNDY : Doubtless he would have made a noble knight ; See , where he lies inhearsed in the arms Of the most bloody nurser of his harms !
BASTARD OF ORLEANS : Hew them to pieces , hack their bones asunder Whose life was England 's glory , Gallia 's wonder .
CHARLES : O , no , forbear ! for that which we have fled During the life , let us not wrong it dead . Enter Sir William LUCY , attended ; Herald of the French preceding
LUCY : Herald , conduct me to the Dauphin 's tent , To know who hath obtained the glory of the day .
CHARLES : On what submissive message art thou sent ?
