BURGUNDY : My vows are equal partners with thy vows .
TALBOT : But , ere we go , regard this dying prince , The valiant Duke of Bedford . Come , my lord , We will bestow you in some better place , Fitter for sickness and for crazy age .
BEDFORD : Lord Talbot , do not so dishonour me : Here will I sit before the walls of Rouen And will be partner of your weal or woe .
BURGUNDY : Courageous Bedford , let us now persuade you .
BEDFORD : Not to be gone from hence ; for once I read That stout Pendragon in his litter sick Came to the field and vanquished his foes : Methinks I should revive the soldiers ' hearts , Because I ever found them as myself .
TALBOT : Undaunted spirit in a dying breast ! Then be it so : heavens keep old Bedford safe ! And now no more ado , brave Burgundy , But gather we our forces out of hand And set upon our boasting enemy . An alarum : excursions . Enter FASTOLFE and a Captain
Captain : Whither away , Sir John Fastolfe , in such haste ?
FASTOLFE : Whither away ! to save myself by flight : We are like to have the overthrow again .
Captain : What ! will you fly , and leave Lord Talbot ?
FASTOLFE : Ay , All the Talbots in the world , to save my life ! Exit
Captain : Cowardly knight ! ill fortune follow thee ! Exit Retreat : excursions . JOAN LA PUCELLE , ALENCON , and CHARLES fly
BEDFORD : Now , quiet soul , depart when heaven please , For I have seen our enemies ' overthrow . What is the trust or strength of foolish man ? They that of late were daring with their scoffs Are glad and fain by flight to save themselves . BEDFORD dies , and is carried in by two in his chair An alarum . Re-enter TALBOT , BURGUNDY , and the rest
TALBOT : Lost , and recover 'd in a day again ! This is a double honour , Burgundy : Yet heavens have glory for this victory !
BURGUNDY : Warlike and martial Talbot , Burgundy Enshrines thee in his heart and there erects Thy noble deeds as valour 's monuments .
TALBOT : Thanks , gentle duke . But where is Pucelle now ? I think her old familiar is asleep : Now where 's the Bastard 's braves , and Charles his gleeks ? What , all amort ? Rouen hangs her head for grief That such a valiant company are fled . Now will we take some order in the town , Placing therein some expert officers , And then depart to Paris to the king , For there young Henry with his nobles lie .
BURGUNDY : What wills Lord Talbot pleaseth Burgundy .
TALBOT : But yet , before we go , let 's not forget The noble Duke of Bedford late deceased , But see his exequies fulfill 'd in Rouen : A braver soldier never couched lance , A gentler heart did never sway in court ; But kings and mightiest potentates must die , For that 's the end of human misery . Enter CHARLES , the BASTARD OF ORLEANS , ALENCON , JOAN LA PUCELLE , and forces
JOAN LA PUCELLE : Dismay not , princes , at this accident , Nor grieve that Rouen is so recovered : Care is no cure , but rather corrosive , For things that are not to be remedied . Let frantic Talbot triumph for a while And like a peacock sweep along his tail ; We 'll pull his plumes and take away his train , If Dauphin and the rest will be but ruled .
CHARLES : We have been guided by thee hitherto , And of thy cunning had no diffidence : One sudden foil shall never breed distrust .
BASTARD OF ORLEANS : Search out thy wit for secret policies , And we will make thee famous through the world .
ALENCON : We 'll set thy statue in some holy place , And have thee reverenced like a blessed saint : Employ thee then , sweet virgin , for our good .
