Mayor : Fie , lords ! that you , being supreme magistrates , Thus contumeliously should break the peace !
GLOUCESTER : Peace , mayor ! thou know 'st little of my wrongs : Here 's Beaufort , that regards nor God nor king , Hath here distrain 'd the Tower to his use . BISHOP
OF WINCHESTER : Here 's Gloucester , a foe to citizens , One that still motions war and never peace , O 'ercharging your free purses with large fines , That seeks to overthrow religion , Because he is protector of the realm , And would have armour here out of the Tower , To crown himself king and suppress the prince .
GLOUCESTER : I will not answer thee with words , but blows . Here they skirmish again
Mayor : Naught rests for me in this tumultuous strife But to make open proclamation : Come , officer ; as loud as e 'er thou canst , Cry .
Officer : All manner of men assembled here in arms this day against God 's peace and the king 's , we charge and command you , in his highness ' name , to repair to your several dwelling-places ; and not to wear , handle , or use any sword , weapon , or dagger , henceforward , upon pain of death .
GLOUCESTER : Cardinal , I 'll be no breaker of the law : But we shall meet , and break our minds at large . BISHOP
OF WINCHESTER : Gloucester , we will meet ; to thy cost , be sure : Thy heart-blood I will have for this day 's work .
Mayor : I 'll call for clubs , if you will not away . This cardinal 's more haughty than the devil .
GLOUCESTER : Mayor , farewell : thou dost but what thou mayst . BISHOP
OF WINCHESTER : Abominable Gloucester , guard thy head ; For I intend to have it ere long . Serving-men
Mayor : See the coast clear 'd , and then we will depart . Good God , these nobles should such stomachs bear ! I myself fight not once in forty year . Enter , on the walls , a Master Gunner and his Boy Master-Gunner Sirrah , thou know 'st how Orleans is besieged , And how the English have the suburbs won .
Boy : Father , I know ; and oft have shot at them , Howe 'er unfortunate I miss 'd my aim . Master-Gunner But now thou shalt not . Be thou ruled by me : Chief master-gunner am I of this town ; Something I must do to procure me grace . The prince 's espials have informed me How the English , in the suburbs close intrench 'd , Wont , through a secret grate of iron bars In yonder tower , to overpeer the city , And thence discover how with most advantage They may vex us with shot , or with assault . To intercept this inconvenience , A piece of ordnance ' gainst it I have placed ; And even these three days have I watch 'd , If I could see them . Now do thou watch , for I can stay no longer . If thou spy 'st any , run and bring me word ; And thou shalt find me at the governor 's . Exit
Boy : Father , I warrant you ; take you no care ; I 'll never trouble you , if I may spy them . Exit Enter , on the turrets , SALISBURY and TALBOT , GLANSDALE , GARGRAVE , and others
SALISBURY : Talbot , my life , my joy , again return 'd ! How wert thou handled being prisoner ? Or by what means got 'st thou to be released ? Discourse , I prithee , on this turret 's top .
