SUFFOLK : And this withal . Kisses her
MARGARET : That for thyself : I will not so presume To send such peevish tokens to a king .
SUFFOLK : O , wert thou for myself ! But , Suffolk , stay ; Thou mayst not wander in that labyrinth ; There Minotaurs and ugly treasons lurk . Solicit Henry with her wondrous praise : Bethink thee on her virtues that surmount , And natural graces that extinguish art ; Repeat their semblance often on the seas , That , when thou comest to kneel at Henry 's feet , Thou mayst bereave him of his wits with wonder . Exit Enter YORK , WARWICK , and others
YORK : Bring forth that sorceress condemn 'd to burn . Enter JOAN LA PUCELLE , guarded , and a Shepherd
Shepherd : Ah , Joan , this kills thy father 's heart outright ! Have I sought every country far and near , And , now it is my chance to find thee out , Must I behold thy timeless cruel death ? Ah , Joan , sweet daughter Joan , I 'll die with thee !
JOAN LA PUCELLE : Decrepit miser ! base ignoble wretch ! I am descended of a gentler blood : Thou art no father nor no friend of mine .
Shepherd : Out , out ! My lords , an please you , ' tis not so ; I did beget her , all the parish knows : Her mother liveth yet , can testify She was the first fruit of my bachelorship .
WARWICK : Graceless ! wilt thou deny thy parentage ?
YORK : This argues what her kind of life hath been , Wicked and vile ; and so her death concludes .
Shepherd : Fie , Joan , that thou wilt be so obstacle ! God knows thou art a collop of my flesh ; And for thy sake have I shed many a tear : Deny me not , I prithee , gentle Joan .
JOAN LA PUCELLE : Peasant , avaunt ! You have suborn 'd this man , Of purpose to obscure my noble birth .
Shepherd : ' Tis true , I gave a noble to the priest The morn that I was wedded to her mother . Kneel down and take my blessing , good my girl . Wilt thou not stoop ? Now cursed be the time Of thy nativity ! I would the milk Thy mother gave thee when thou suck 'dst her breast , Had been a little ratsbane for thy sake ! Or else , when thou didst keep my lambs a-field , I wish some ravenous wolf had eaten thee ! Dost thou deny thy father , cursed drab ? O , burn her , burn her ! hanging is too good . Exit
YORK : Take her away ; for she hath lived too long , To fill the world with vicious qualities .
JOAN LA PUCELLE : First , let me tell you whom you have condemn 'd : Not me begotten of a shepherd swain , But issued from the progeny of kings ; Virtuous and holy ; chosen from above , By inspiration of celestial grace , To work exceeding miracles on earth . I never had to do with wicked spirits : But you , that are polluted with your lusts , Stain 'd with the guiltless blood of innocents , Corrupt and tainted with a thousand vices , Because you want the grace that others have , You judge it straight a thing impossible To compass wonders but by help of devils . No , misconceived ! Joan of Arc hath been A virgin from her tender infancy , Chaste and immaculate in very thought ; Whose maiden blood , thus rigorously effused , Will cry for vengeance at the gates of heaven .
YORK : Ay , ay : away with her to execution !
WARWICK : And hark ye , sirs ; because she is a maid , Spare for no faggots , let there be enow : Place barrels of pitch upon the fatal stake , That so her torture may be shortened .
JOAN LA PUCELLE : Will nothing turn your unrelenting hearts ? Then , Joan , discover thine infirmity , That warranteth by law to be thy privilege . I am with child , ye bloody homicides : Murder not then the fruit within my womb , Although ye hale me to a violent death .
