YORK : Will not this malice , Somerset , be left ?
SOMERSET : Your private grudge , my Lord of York , will out , Though ne 'er so cunningly you smother it .
KING HENRY VI : Good Lord , what madness rules in brainsick men , When for so slight and frivolous a cause Such factious emulations shall arise ! Good cousins both , of York and Somerset , Quiet yourselves , I pray , and be at peace .
YORK : Let this dissension first be tried by fight , And then your highness shall command a peace .
SOMERSET : The quarrel toucheth none but us alone ; Betwixt ourselves let us decide it then .
YORK : There is my pledge ; accept it , Somerset .
VERNON : Nay , let it rest where it began at first .
BASSET : Confirm it so , mine honourable lord .
GLOUCESTER : Confirm it so ! Confounded be your strife ! And perish ye , with your audacious prate ! Presumptuous vassals , are you not ashamed With this immodest clamorous outrage To trouble and disturb the king and us ? And you , my lords , methinks you do not well To bear with their perverse objections ; Much less to take occasion from their mouths To raise a mutiny betwixt yourselves : Let me persuade you take a better course .
EXETER : It grieves his highness : good my lords , be friends .
KING HENRY VI : Come hither , you that would be combatants : Henceforth I charge you , as you love our favour , Quite to forget this quarrel and the cause . And you , my lords , remember where we are , In France , amongst a fickle wavering nation : If they perceive dissension in our looks And that within ourselves we disagree , How will their grudging stomachs be provoked To wilful disobedience , and rebel ! Beside , what infamy will there arise , When foreign princes shall be certified That for a toy , a thing of no regard , King Henry 's peers and chief nobility Destroy 'd themselves , and lost the realm of France ! O , think upon the conquest of my father , My tender years , and let us not forego That for a trifle that was bought with blood Let me be umpire in this doubtful strife . I see no reason , if I wear this rose , Putting on a red rose That any one should therefore be suspicious I more incline to Somerset than York : Both are my kinsmen , and I love them both : As well they may upbraid me with my crown , Because , forsooth , the king of Scots is crown 'd . But your discretions better can persuade Than I am able to instruct or teach : And therefore , as we hither came in peace , So let us still continue peace and love . Cousin of York , we institute your grace To be our regent in these parts of France : And , good my Lord of Somerset , unite Your troops of horsemen with his bands of foot ; And , like true subjects , sons of your progenitors , Go cheerfully together and digest . Your angry choler on your enemies . Ourself , my lord protector and the rest After some respite will return to Calais ; From thence to England ; where I hope ere long To be presented , by your victories , With Charles , Alencon and that traitorous rout .
WARWICK : My Lord of York , I promise you , the king Prettily , methought , did play the orator .
YORK : And so he did ; but yet I like it not , In that he wears the badge of Somerset .
WARWICK : Tush , that was but his fancy , blame him not ; I dare presume , sweet prince , he thought no harm .
YORK : An if I wist he did , --but let it rest ; Other affairs must now be managed .
