SOMERSET : Away , away , good William de la Pole ! We grace the yeoman by conversing with him .
WARWICK : Now , by God 's will , thou wrong 'st him , Somerset ; His grandfather was Lionel Duke of Clarence , Third son to the third Edward King of England : Spring crestless yeomen from so deep a root ? RICHARD
PLANTAGENET : He bears him on the place 's privilege , Or durst not , for his craven heart , say thus .
SOMERSET : By him that made me , I 'll maintain my words On any plot of ground in Christendom . Was not thy father , Richard Earl of Cambridge , For treason executed in our late king 's days ? And , by his treason , stand 'st not thou attainted , Corrupted , and exempt from ancient gentry ? His trespass yet lives guilty in thy blood ; And , till thou be restored , thou art a yeoman . RICHARD
PLANTAGENET : My father was attached , not attainted , Condemn 'd to die for treason , but no traitor ; And that I 'll prove on better men than Somerset , Were growing time once ripen 'd to my will . For your partaker Pole and you yourself , I 'll note you in my book of memory , To scourge you for this apprehension : Look to it well and say you are well warn 'd .
SOMERSET : Ah , thou shalt find us ready for thee still ; And know us by these colours for thy foes , For these my friends in spite of thee shall wear . RICHARD
PLANTAGENET : And , by my soul , this pale and angry rose , As cognizance of my blood-drinking hate , Will I for ever and my faction wear , Until it wither with me to my grave Or flourish to the height of my degree .
SUFFOLK : Go forward and be choked with thy ambition ! And so farewell until I meet thee next . Exit
SOMERSET : Have with thee , Pole . Farewell , ambitious Richard . Exit RICHARD
PLANTAGENET : How I am braved and must perforce endure it !
WARWICK : This blot that they object against your house Shall be wiped out in the next parliament Call 'd for the truce of Winchester and Gloucester ; And if thou be not then created York , I will not live to be accounted Warwick . Meantime , in signal of my love to thee , Against proud Somerset and William Pole , Will I upon thy party wear this rose : And here I prophesy : this brawl to-day , Grown to this faction in the Temple-garden , Shall send between the red rose and the white A thousand souls to death and deadly night . RICHARD
PLANTAGENET : Good Master Vernon , I am bound to you , That you on my behalf would pluck a flower .
VERNON : In your behalf still will I wear the same .
Lawyer : And so will I. RICHARD
PLANTAGENET : Thanks , gentle sir . Come , let us four to dinner : I dare say This quarrel will drink blood another day . Enter MORTIMER , brought in a chair , and Gaolers
MORTIMER : Kind keepers of my weak decaying age , Let dying Mortimer here rest himself . Even like a man new haled from the rack , So fare my limbs with long imprisonment . And these grey locks , the pursuivants of death , Nestor-like aged in an age of care , Argue the end of Edmund Mortimer . These eyes , like lamps whose wasting oil is spent , Wax dim , as drawing to their exigent ; Weak shoulders , overborne with burthening grief , And pithless arms , like to a wither 'd vine That droops his sapless branches to the ground ; Yet are these feet , whose strengthless stay is numb , Unable to support this lump of clay , Swift-winged with desire to get a grave , As witting I no other comfort have . But tell me , keeper , will my nephew come ?
First Gaoler : Richard Plantagenet , my lord , will come : We sent unto the Temple , unto his chamber ; And answer was return 'd that he will come .
