CHARLES : Go , call her in . Exit BASTARD OF ORLEANS But first , to try her skill , Reignier , stand thou as Dauphin in my place : Question her proudly ; let thy looks be stern : By this means shall we sound what skill she hath . Re-enter the BASTARD OF ORLEANS , with JOAN LA PUCELLE
REIGNIER : Fair maid , is 't thou wilt do these wondrous feats ?
JOAN LA PUCELLE : Reignier , is 't thou that thinkest to beguile me ? Where is the Dauphin ? Come , come from behind ; I know thee well , though never seen before . Be not amazed , there 's nothing hid from me : In private will I talk with thee apart . Stand back , you lords , and give us leave awhile .
REIGNIER : She takes upon her bravely at first dash .
JOAN LA PUCELLE : Dauphin , I am by birth a shepherd 's daughter , My wit untrain 'd in any kind of art . Heaven and our Lady gracious hath it pleased To shine on my contemptible estate : Lo , whilst I waited on my tender lambs , And to sun 's parching heat display 'd my cheeks , God 's mother deigned to appear to me And in a vision full of majesty Will 'd me to leave my base vocation And free my country from calamity : Her aid she promised and assured success : In complete glory she reveal 'd herself ; And , whereas I was black and swart before , With those clear rays which she infused on me That beauty am I bless 'd with which you see . Ask me what question thou canst possible , And I will answer unpremeditated : My courage try by combat , if thou darest , And thou shalt find that I exceed my sex . Resolve on this , thou shalt be fortunate , If thou receive me for thy warlike mate .
CHARLES : Thou hast astonish 'd me with thy high terms : Only this proof I 'll of thy valour make , In single combat thou shalt buckle with me , And if thou vanquishest , thy words are true ; Otherwise I renounce all confidence .
JOAN LA PUCELLE : I am prepared : here is my keen-edged sword , Deck 'd with five flower-de-luces on each side ; The which at Touraine , in Saint Katharine 's churchyard , Out of a great deal of old iron I chose forth .
CHARLES : Then come , o ' God 's name ; I fear no woman .
JOAN LA PUCELLE : And while I live , I 'll ne 'er fly from a man . Here they fight , and JOAN LA PUCELLE overcomes
CHARLES : Stay , stay thy hands ! thou art an Amazon And fightest with the sword of Deborah .
JOAN LA PUCELLE : Christ 's mother helps me , else I were too weak .
CHARLES : Whoe 'er helps thee , ' tis thou that must help me : Impatiently I burn with thy desire ; My heart and hands thou hast at once subdued . Excellent Pucelle , if thy name be so , Let me thy servant and not sovereign be : ' Tis the French Dauphin sueth to thee thus .
JOAN LA PUCELLE : I must not yield to any rites of love , For my profession 's sacred from above : When I have chased all thy foes from hence , Then will I think upon a recompense .
CHARLES : Meantime look gracious on thy prostrate thrall .
REIGNIER : My lord , methinks , is very long in talk .
ALENCON : Doubtless he shrives this woman to her smock ; Else ne 'er could he so long protract his speech .
REIGNIER : Shall we disturb him , since he keeps no mean ?
ALENCON : He may mean more than we poor men do know : These women are shrewd tempters with their tongues .
REIGNIER : My lord , where are you ? what devise you on ? Shall we give over Orleans , or no ?
JOAN LA PUCELLE : Why , no , I say , distrustful recreants ! Fight till the last gasp ; I will be your guard .
CHARLES : What she says I 'll confirm : we 'll fight it out .
