YORK : Insulting Charles ! hast thou by secret means Used intercession to obtain a league , And , now the matter grows to compromise , Stand 'st thou aloof upon comparison ? Either accept the title thou usurp 'st , Of benefit proceeding from our king And not of any challenge of desert , Or we will plague thee with incessant wars .
REIGNIER : My lord , you do not well in obstinacy To cavil in the course of this contract : If once it be neglected , ten to one We shall not find like opportunity .
ALENCON : To say the truth , it is your policy To save your subjects from such massacre And ruthless slaughters as are daily seen By our proceeding in hostility ; And therefore take this compact of a truce , Although you break it when your pleasure serves .
WARWICK : How say 'st thou , Charles ? shall our condition stand ?
CHARLES : It shall ; Only reserved , you claim no interest In any of our towns of garrison .
YORK : Then swear allegiance to his majesty , As thou art knight , never to disobey Nor be rebellious to the crown of England , Thou , nor thy nobles , to the crown of England . So , now dismiss your army when ye please : Hang up your ensign , let your drums be still , For here we entertain a solemn peace . Enter SUFFOLK in conference with KING HENRY VI , GLOUCESTER and EXETER
KING HENRY VI : Your wondrous rare description , noble earl , Of beauteous Margaret hath astonish 'd me : Her virtues graced with external gifts Do breed love 's settled passions in my heart : And like as rigor of tempestuous gusts Provokes the mightiest hulk against the tide , So am I driven by breath of her renown Either to suffer shipwreck or arrive Where I may have fruition of her love .
SUFFOLK : Tush , my good lord , this superficial tale Is but a preface of her worthy praise ; The chief perfections of that lovely dame Had I sufficient skill to utter them , Would make a volume of enticing lines , Able to ravish any dull conceit : And , which is more , she is not so divine , So full-replete with choice of all delights , But with as humble lowliness of mind She is content to be at your command ; Command , I mean , of virtuous chaste intents , To love and honour Henry as her lord .
KING HENRY VI : And otherwise will Henry ne 'er presume . Therefore , my lord protector , give consent That Margaret may be England 's royal queen .
GLOUCESTER : So should I give consent to flatter sin . You know , my lord , your highness is betroth 'd Unto another lady of esteem : How shall we then dispense with that contract , And not deface your honour with reproach ?
SUFFOLK : As doth a ruler with unlawful oaths ; Or one that , at a triumph having vow 'd To try his strength , forsaketh yet the lists By reason of his adversary 's odds : A poor earl 's daughter is unequal odds , And therefore may be broke without offence .
GLOUCESTER : Why , what , I pray , is Margaret more than that ? Her father is no better than an earl , Although in glorious titles he excel .
SUFFOLK : Yes , lord , her father is a king , The King of Naples and Jerusalem ; And of such great authority in France As his alliance will confirm our peace And keep the Frenchmen in allegiance .
GLOUCESTER : And so the Earl of Armagnac may do , Because he is near kinsman unto Charles .
EXETER : Beside , his wealth doth warrant a liberal dower , Where Reignier sooner will receive than give .
