PLANTAGENET : Plantagenet , I see , must hold his tongue , Lest it be said ' Speak , sirrah , when you should ; Must your bold verdict enter talk with lords ? ' Else would I have a fling at Winchester .
KING HENRY VI : Uncles of Gloucester and of Winchester , The special watchmen of our English weal , I would prevail , if prayers might prevail , To join your hearts in love and amity . O , what a scandal is it to our crown , That two such noble peers as ye should jar ! Believe me , lords , my tender years can tell Civil dissension is a viperous worm That gnaws the bowels of the commonwealth . A noise within , ' Down with the tawny-coats ! ' What tumult 's this ?
WARWICK : An uproar , I dare warrant , Begun through malice of the bishop 's men . A noise again , ' Stones ! stones ! ' Enter Mayor
Mayor : O , my good lords , and virtuous Henry , Pity the city of London , pity us ! The bishop and the Duke of Gloucester 's men , Forbidden late to carry any weapon , Have fill 'd their pockets full of pebble stones And banding themselves in contrary parts Do pelt so fast at one another 's pate That many have their giddy brains knock 'd out : Our windows are broke down in every street And we for fear compell 'd to shut our shops . Enter Serving-men , in skirmish , with bloody pates
KING HENRY VI : We charge you , on allegiance to ourself , To hold your slaughtering hands and keep the peace . Pray , uncle Gloucester , mitigate this strife . First Serving-man Nay , if we be forbidden stones , We 'll fall to it with our teeth . Second Serving-man Do what ye dare , we are as resolute . Skirmish again
GLOUCESTER : You of my household , leave this peevish broil And set this unaccustom 'd fight aside . Third Serving-man My lord , we know your grace to be a man Just and upright ; and , for your royal birth , Inferior to none but to his majesty : And ere that we will suffer such a prince , So kind a father of the commonweal , To be disgraced by an inkhorn mate , We and our wives and children all will fight And have our bodies slaughtered by thy foes . First Serving-man Ay , and the very parings of our nails Shall pitch a field when we are dead . Begin again
GLOUCESTER : Stay , stay , I say ! And if you love me , as you say you do , Let me persuade you to forbear awhile .
KING HENRY VI : O , how this discord doth afflict my soul ! Can you , my Lord of Winchester , behold My sighs and tears and will not once relent ? Who should be pitiful , if you be not ? Or who should study to prefer a peace . If holy churchmen take delight in broils ?
WARWICK : Yield , my lord protector ; yield , Winchester ; Except you mean with obstinate repulse To slay your sovereign and destroy the realm . You see what mischief and what murder too Hath been enacted through your enmity ; Then be at peace except ye thirst for blood . BISHOP
OF WINCHESTER : He shall submit , or I will never yield .
GLOUCESTER : Compassion on the king commands me stoop ; Or I would see his heart out , ere the priest Should ever get that privilege of me .
WARWICK : Behold , my Lord of Winchester , the duke Hath banish 'd moody discontented fury , As by his smoothed brows it doth appear : Why look you still so stern and tragical ?
GLOUCESTER : Here , Winchester , I offer thee my hand .
KING HENRY VI : Fie , uncle Beaufort ! I have heard you preach That malice was a great and grievous sin ; And will not you maintain the thing you teach , But prove a chief offender in the same ?
WARWICK : Sweet king ! the bishop hath a kindly gird . For shame , my lord of Winchester , relent ! What , shall a child instruct you what to do ? BISHOP
