KING PHILIP : England , thou hast not saved one drop of blood , In this hot trial , more than we of France ; Rather , lost more . And by this hand I swear , That sways the earth this climate overlooks , Before we will lay down our just-borne arms , We 'll put thee down , ' gainst whom these arms we bear , Or add a royal number to the dead , Gracing the scroll that tells of this war 's loss With slaughter coupled to the name of kings .
BASTARD : Ha , majesty ! how high thy glory towers , When the rich blood of kings is set on fire ! O , now doth Death line his dead chaps with steel ; The swords of soldiers are his teeth , his fangs ; And now he feasts , mousing the flesh of men , In undetermined differences of kings . Why stand these royal fronts amazed thus ? Cry , ' havoc ! ' kings ; back to the stained field , You equal potents , fiery kindled spirits ! Then let confusion of one part confirm The other 's peace : till then , blows , blood and death !
KING JOHN : Whose party do the townsmen yet admit ?
KING PHILIP : Speak , citizens , for England ; who 's your king ?
First Citizen : The king of England ; when we know the king .
KING PHILIP : Know him in us , that here hold up his right .
KING JOHN : In us , that are our own great deputy And bear possession of our person here , Lord of our presence , Angiers , and of you .
First Citizen : A greater power then we denies all this ; And till it be undoubted , we do lock Our former scruple in our strong-barr 'd gates ; King 'd of our fears , until our fears , resolved , Be by some certain king purged and deposed .
BASTARD : By heaven , these scroyles of Angiers flout you , kings , And stand securely on their battlements , As in a theatre , whence they gape and point At your industrious scenes and acts of death . Your royal presences be ruled by me : Do like the mutines of Jerusalem , Be friends awhile and both conjointly bend Your sharpest deeds of malice on this town : By east and west let France and England mount Their battering cannon charged to the mouths , Till their soul-fearing clamours have brawl 'd down The flinty ribs of this contemptuous city : I 'ld play incessantly upon these jades , Even till unfenced desolation Leave them as naked as the vulgar air . That done , dissever your united strengths , And part your mingled colours once again ; Turn face to face and bloody point to point ; Then , in a moment , Fortune shall cull forth Out of one side her happy minion , To whom in favour she shall give the day , And kiss him with a glorious victory . How like you this wild counsel , mighty states ? Smacks it not something of the policy ?
KING JOHN : Now , by the sky that hangs above our heads , I like it well . France , shall we knit our powers And lay this Angiers even to the ground ; Then after fight who shall be king of it ?
BASTARD : An if thou hast the mettle of a king , Being wronged as we are by this peevish town , Turn thou the mouth of thy artillery , As we will ours , against these saucy walls ; And when that we have dash 'd them to the ground , Why then defy each other and pell-mell Make work upon ourselves , for heaven or hell .
KING PHILIP : Let it be so . Say , where will you assault ?
KING JOHN : We from the west will send destruction Into this city 's bosom .
AUSTRIA : I from the north .
KING PHILIP : Our thunder from the south Shall rain their drift of bullets on this town .
BASTARD : O prudent discipline ! From north to south : Austria and France shoot in each other 's mouth : I 'll stir them to it . Come , away , away !
