HUBERT : So well , that what you bid me undertake , Though that my death were adjunct to my act , By heaven , I would do it .
KING JOHN : Do not I know thou wouldst ? Good Hubert , Hubert , Hubert , throw thine eye On yon young boy : I 'll tell thee what , my friend , He is a very serpent in my way ; And whereso 'er this foot of mine doth tread , He lies before me : dost thou understand me ? Thou art his keeper .
HUBERT : And I 'll keep him so , That he shall not offend your majesty .
KING JOHN : Death .
HUBERT : My lord ?
KING JOHN : A grave .
HUBERT : He shall not live .
KING JOHN : Enough . I could be merry now . Hubert , I love thee ; Well , I 'll not say what I intend for thee : Remember . Madam , fare you well : I 'll send those powers o 'er to your majesty .
ELINOR : My blessing go with thee !
KING JOHN : For England , cousin , go : Hubert shall be your man , attend on you With all true duty . On toward Calais , ho ! Enter KING PHILIP , LEWIS , CARDINAL PANDULPH , and Attendants
KING PHILIP : So , by a roaring tempest on the flood , A whole armado of convicted sail Is scatter 'd and disjoin 'd from fellowship .
CARDINAL PANDULPH : Courage and comfort ! all shall yet go well .
KING PHILIP : What can go well , when we have run so ill ? Are we not beaten ? Is not Angiers lost ? Arthur ta 'en prisoner ? divers dear friends slain ? And bloody England into England gone , O 'erbearing interruption , spite of France ?
LEWIS : What he hath won , that hath he fortified : So hot a speed with such advice disposed , Such temperate order in so fierce a cause , Doth want example : who hath read or heard Of any kindred action like to this ?
KING PHILIP : Well could I bear that England had this praise , So we could find some pattern of our shame . Enter CONSTANCE Look , who comes here ! a grave unto a soul ; Holding the eternal spirit against her will , In the vile prison of afflicted breath . I prithee , lady , go away with me .
CONSTANCE : Lo , now I now see the issue of your peace .
KING PHILIP : Patience , good lady ! comfort , gentle Constance !
CONSTANCE : No , I defy all counsel , all redress , But that which ends all counsel , true redress , Death , death ; O amiable lovely death ! Thou odouriferous stench ! sound rottenness ! Arise forth from the couch of lasting night , Thou hate and terror to prosperity , And I will kiss thy detestable bones And put my eyeballs in thy vaulty brows And ring these fingers with thy household worms And stop this gap of breath with fulsome dust And be a carrion monster like thyself : Come , grin on me , and I will think thou smilest And buss thee as thy wife . Misery 's love , O , come to me !
KING PHILIP : O fair affliction , peace !
CONSTANCE : No , no , I will not , having breath to cry : O , that my tongue were in the thunder 's mouth ! Then with a passion would I shake the world ; And rouse from sleep that fell anatomy Which cannot hear a lady 's feeble voice , Which scorns a modern invocation .
CARDINAL PANDULPH : Lady , you utter madness , and not sorrow .
