KING PHILIP : Brother of England , you blaspheme in this .
KING JOHN : Though you and all the kings of Christendom Are led so grossly by this meddling priest , Dreading the curse that money may buy out ; And by the merit of vile gold , dross , dust , Purchase corrupted pardon of a man , Who in that sale sells pardon from himself , Though you and all the rest so grossly led This juggling witchcraft with revenue cherish , Yet I alone , alone do me oppose Against the pope and count his friends my foes .
CARDINAL PANDULPH : Then , by the lawful power that I have , Thou shalt stand cursed and excommunicate . And blessed shall he be that doth revolt From his allegiance to an heretic ; And meritorious shall that hand be call 'd , Canonized and worshipped as a saint , That takes away by any secret course Thy hateful life .
CONSTANCE : O , lawful let it be That I have room with Rome to curse awhile ! Good father cardinal , cry thou amen To my keen curses ; for without my wrong There is no tongue hath power to curse him right .
CARDINAL PANDULPH : There 's law and warrant , lady , for my curse .
CONSTANCE : And for mine too : when law can do no right , Let it be lawful that law bar no wrong : Law cannot give my child his kingdom here , For he that holds his kingdom holds the law ; Therefore , since law itself is perfect wrong , How can the law forbid my tongue to curse ?
CARDINAL PANDULPH : Philip of France , on peril of a curse , Let go the hand of that arch-heretic ; And raise the power of France upon his head , Unless he do submit himself to Rome .
QUEEN ELINOR : Look 'st thou pale , France ? do not let go thy hand .
CONSTANCE : Look to that , devil ; lest that France repent , And by disjoining hands , hell lose a soul .
AUSTRIA : King Philip , listen to the cardinal .
BASTARD : And hang a calf 's-skin on his recreant limbs .
AUSTRIA : Well , ruffian , I must pocket up these wrongs , Because--
BASTARD : Your breeches best may carry them .
KING JOHN : Philip , what say 'st thou to the cardinal ?
CONSTANCE : What should he say , but as the cardinal ?
LEWIS : Bethink you , father ; for the difference Is purchase of a heavy curse from Rome , Or the light loss of England for a friend : Forego the easier .
BLANCH : That 's the curse of Rome .
CONSTANCE : O Lewis , stand fast ! the devil tempts thee here In likeness of a new untrimmed bride .
BLANCH : The Lady Constance speaks not from her faith , But from her need .
CONSTANCE : O , if thou grant my need , Which only lives but by the death of faith , That need must needs infer this principle , That faith would live again by death of need . O then , tread down my need , and faith mounts up ; Keep my need up , and faith is trodden down !
KING JOHN : The king is moved , and answers not to this .
CONSTANCE : O , be removed from him , and answer well !
AUSTRIA : Do so , King Philip ; hang no more in doubt .
BASTARD : Hang nothing but a calf 's-skin , most sweet lout .
KING PHILIP : I am perplex 'd , and know not what to say .
CARDINAL PANDULPH : What canst thou say but will perplex thee more , If thou stand excommunicate and cursed ?
