HUBERT : Who 's there ? speak , ho ! speak quickly , or I shoot .
BASTARD : A friend . What art thou ?
HUBERT : Of the part of England .
BASTARD : Whither dost thou go ?
HUBERT : What 's that to thee ? why may not I demand Of thine affairs , as well as thou of mine ?
BASTARD : Hubert , I think ?
HUBERT : Thou hast a perfect thought : I will upon all hazards well believe Thou art my friend , that know 'st my tongue so well . Who art thou ?
BASTARD : Who thou wilt : and if thou please , Thou mayst befriend me so much as to think I come one way of the Plantagenets .
HUBERT : Unkind remembrance ! thou and eyeless night Have done me shame : brave soldier , pardon me , That any accent breaking from thy tongue Should ' scape the true acquaintance of mine ear .
BASTARD : Come , come ; sans compliment , what news abroad ?
HUBERT : Why , here walk I in the black brow of night , To find you out .
BASTARD : Brief , then ; and what 's the news ?
HUBERT : O , my sweet sir , news fitting to the night , Black , fearful , comfortless and horrible .
BASTARD : Show me the very wound of this ill news : I am no woman , I 'll not swoon at it .
HUBERT : The king , I fear , is poison 'd by a monk : I left him almost speechless ; and broke out To acquaint you with this evil , that you might The better arm you to the sudden time , Than if you had at leisure known of this .
BASTARD : How did he take it ? who did taste to him ?
HUBERT : A monk , I tell you ; a resolved villain , Whose bowels suddenly burst out : the king Yet speaks and peradventure may recover .
BASTARD : Who didst thou leave to tend his majesty ?
HUBERT : Why , know you not ? the lords are all come back , And brought Prince Henry in their company ; At whose request the king hath pardon 'd them , And they are all about his majesty .
BASTARD : Withhold thine indignation , mighty heaven , And tempt us not to bear above our power ! I 'll tell tree , Hubert , half my power this night , Passing these flats , are taken by the tide ; These Lincoln Washes have devoured them ; Myself , well mounted , hardly have escaped . Away before : conduct me to the king ; I doubt he will be dead or ere I come . Enter PRINCE HENRY , SALISBURY , and BIGOT
PRINCE HENRY : It is too late : the life of all his blood Is touch 'd corruptibly , and his pure brain , Which some suppose the soul 's frail dwelling-house , Doth by the idle comments that it makes Foretell the ending of mortality . Enter PEMBROKE
PEMBROKE : His highness yet doth speak , and holds belief That , being brought into the open air , It would allay the burning quality Of that fell poison which assaileth him .
PRINCE HENRY : Let him be brought into the orchard here . Doth he still rage ? Exit BIGOT
PEMBROKE : He is more patient Than when you left him ; even now he sung .
PRINCE HENRY : O vanity of sickness ! fierce extremes In their continuance will not feel themselves . Death , having prey 'd upon the outward parts , Leaves them invisible , and his siege is now Against the mind , the which he pricks and wounds With many legions of strange fantasies , Whi ch , in their throng and press to that last hold , Confound themselves . ' Tis strange that death should sing . I am the cygnet to this pale faint swan , Who chants a doleful hymn to his own death , And from the organ-pipe of frailty sings His soul and body to their lasting rest .
SALISBURY : Be of good comfort , prince ; for you are born To set a form upon that indigest Which he hath left so shapeless and so rude . Enter Attendants , and BIGOT , carrying KING JOHN in a chair
