KING JOHN : Why , what a madcap hath heaven lent us here !
QUEEN ELINOR : He hath a trick of Coeur-de-lion 's face ; The accent of his tongue affecteth him . Do you not read some tokens of my son In the large composition of this man ?
KING JOHN : Mine eye hath well examined his parts And finds them perfect Richard . Sirrah , speak , What doth move you to claim your brother 's land ?
BASTARD : Because he hath a half-face , like my father . With half that face would he have all my land : A half-faced groat five hundred pound a year !
ROBERT : My gracious liege , when that my father lived , Your brother did employ my father much , --
BASTARD : Well , sir , by this you cannot get my land : Your tale must be how he employ 'd my mother .
ROBERT : And once dispatch 'd him in an embassy To Germany , there with the emperor To treat of high affairs touching that time . The advantage of his absence took the king And in the mean time sojourn 'd at my father 's ; Where how he did prevail I shame to speak , But truth is truth : large lengths of seas and shores Between my father and my mother lay , As I have heard my father speak himself , When this same lusty gentleman was got . Upon his death-bed he by will bequeath 'd His lands to me , and took it on his death That this my mother 's son was none of his ; And if he were , he came into the world Full fourteen weeks before the course of time . Then , good my liege , let me have what is mine , My father 's land , as was my father 's will .
KING JOHN : Sirrah , your brother is legitimate ; Your father 's wife did after wedlock bear him , And if she did play false , the fault was hers ; Which fault lies on the hazards of all husbands That marry wives . Tell me , how if my brother , Who , as you say , took pains to get this son , Had of your father claim 'd this son for his ? In sooth , good friend , your father might have kept This calf bred from his cow from all the world ; In sooth he might ; then , if he were my brother 's , My brother might not claim him ; nor your father , Being none of his , refuse him : this concludes ; My mother 's son did get your father 's heir ; Your father 's heir must have your father 's land .
ROBERT : Shall then my father 's will be of no force To dispossess that child which is not his ?
BASTARD : Of no more force to dispossess me , sir , Than was his will to get me , as I think .
QUEEN ELINOR : Whether hadst thou rather be a Faulconbridge And like thy brother , to enjoy thy land , Or the reputed son of Coeur-de-lion , Lord of thy presence and no land beside ?
BASTARD : Madam , an if my brother had my shape , And I had his , sir Robert 's his , like him ; And if my legs were two such riding-rods , My arms such eel-skins stuff 'd , my face so thin That in mine ear I durst not stick a rose Lest men should say ' Look , where three-farthings goes ! ' And , to his shape , were heir to all this land , Would I might never stir from off this place , I would give it every foot to have this face ; I would not be sir Nob in any case .
QUEEN ELINOR : I like thee well : wilt thou forsake thy fortune , Bequeath thy land to him and follow me ? I am a soldier and now bound to France .
BASTARD : Brother , take you my land , I 'll take my chance . Your face hath got five hundred pound a year , Yet sell your face for five pence and ' tis dear . Madam , I 'll follow you unto the death .
