PRINCE HENRY : How fares your majesty ?
KING JOHN : Poison 'd , --ill fare--dead , forsook , cast off : And none of you will bid the winter come To thrust his icy fingers in my maw , Nor let my kingdom 's rivers take their course Through my burn 'd bosom , nor entreat the north To make his bleak winds kiss my parched lips And comfort me with cold . I do not ask you much , I beg cold comfort ; and you are so strait And so ingrateful , you deny me that .
PRINCE HENRY : O that there were some virtue in my tears , That might relieve you !
KING JOHN : The salt in them is hot . Within me is a hell ; and there the poison Is as a fiend confined to tyrannize On unreprievable condemned blood . Enter the BASTARD
BASTARD : O , I am scalded with my violent motion , And spleen of speed to see your majesty !
KING JOHN : O cousin , thou art come to set mine eye : The tackle of my heart is crack 'd and burn 'd , And all the shrouds wherewith my life should sail Are turned to one thread , one little hair : My heart hath one poor string to stay it by , Which holds but till thy news be uttered ; And then all this thou seest is but a clod And module of confounded royalty .
BASTARD : The Dauphin is preparing hitherward , Where heaven He knows how we shall answer him ; For in a night the best part of my power , As I upon advantage did remove , Were in the Washes all unwarily Devoured by the unexpected flood . KING JOHN dies
SALISBURY : You breathe these dead news in as dead an ear . My liege ! my lord ! but now a king , now thus .
PRINCE HENRY : Even so must I run on , and even so stop . What surety of the world , what hope , what stay , When this was now a king , and now is clay ?
BASTARD : Art thou gone so ? I do but stay behind To do the office for thee of revenge , And then my soul shall wait on thee to heaven , As it on earth hath been thy servant still . Now , now , you stars that move in your right spheres , Where be your powers ? show now your mended faiths , And instantly return with me again , To push destruction and perpetual shame Out of the weak door of our fainting land . Straight let us seek , or straight we shall be sought ; The Dauphin rages at our very heels .
SALISBURY : It seems you know not , then , so much as we : The Cardinal Pandulph is within at rest , Who half an hour since came from the Dauphin , And brings from him such offers of our peace As we with honour and respect may take , With purpose presently to leave this war .
BASTARD : He will the rather do it when he sees Ourselves well sinewed to our defence .
SALISBURY : Nay , it is in a manner done already ; For many carriages he hath dispatch 'd To the sea-side , and put his cause and quarrel To the disposing of the cardinal : With whom yourself , myself and other lords , If you think meet , this afternoon will post To consummate this business happily .
BASTARD : Let it be so : and you , my noble prince , With other princes that may best be spared , Shall wait upon your father 's funeral .
PRINCE HENRY : At Worcester must his body be interr 'd ; For so he will 'd it .
BASTARD : Thither shall it then : And happily may your sweet self put on The lineal state and glory of the land ! To whom with all submission , on my knee I do bequeath my faithful services And true subjection everlastingly .
SALISBURY : And the like tender of our love we make , To rest without a spot for evermore .
PRINCE HENRY : I have a kind soul that would give you thanks And knows not how to do it but with tears .
