SALISBURY : That misbegotten devil , Faulconbridge , In spite of spite , alone upholds the day .
PEMBROKE : They say King John sore sick hath left the field . Enter MELUN , wounded
MELUN : Lead me to the revolts of England here .
SALISBURY : When we were happy we had other names .
PEMBROKE : It is the Count Melun .
SALISBURY : Wounded to death .
MELUN : Fly , noble English , you are bought and sold ; Unthread the rude eye of rebellion And welcome home again discarded faith . Seek out King John and fall before his feet ; For if the French be lords of this loud day , He means to recompense the pains you take By cutting off your heads : thus hath he sworn And I with him , and many moe with me , Upon the altar at Saint Edmundsbury ; Even on that altar where we swore to you Dear amity and everlasting love .
SALISBURY : May this be possible ? may this be true ?
MELUN : Have I not hideous death within my view , Retaining but a quantity of life , Which bleeds away , even as a form of wax Resolveth from his figure ' gainst the fire ? What in the world should make me now deceive , Since I must lose the use of all deceit ? Why should I then be false , since it is true That I must die here and live hence by truth ? I say again , if Lewis do win the day , He is forsworn , if e 'er those eyes of yours Behold another day break in the east : But even this night , whose black contagious breath Already smokes about the burning crest Of the old , feeble and day-wearied sun , Even this ill night , your breathing shall expire , Paying the fine of rated treachery Even with a treacherous fine of all your lives , If Lewis by your assistance win the day . Commend me to one Hubert with your king : The love of him , and this respect besides , For that my grandsire was an Englishman , Awakes my conscience to confess all this . In lieu whereof , I pray you , bear me hence From forth the noise and rumour of the field , Where I may think the remnant of my thoughts In peace , and part this body and my soul With contemplation and devout desires .
SALISBURY : We do believe thee : and beshrew my soul But I do love the favour and the form Of this most fair occasion , by the which We will untread the steps of damned flight , And like a bated and retired flood , Leaving our rankness and irregular course , Stoop low within those bounds we have o 'erlook 'd And cabby run on in obedience Even to our ocean , to our great King John . My arm shall give thee help to bear thee hence ; For I do see the cruel pangs of death Right in thine eye . Away , my friends ! New flight ; And happy newness , that intends old right . Enter LEWIS and his train
LEWIS : The sun of heaven methought was loath to set , But stay 'd and made the western welkin blush , When English measure backward their own ground In faint retire . O , bravely came we off , When with a volley of our needless shot , After such bloody toil , we bid good night ; And wound our tattering colours clearly up , Last in the field , and almost lords of it ! Enter a Messenger
Messenger : Where is my prince , the Dauphin ?
LEWIS : Here : what news ?
Messenger : The Count Melun is slain ; the English lords By his persuasion are again fall 'n off , And your supply , which you have wish 'd so long , Are cast away and sunk on Goodwin Sands .
LEWIS : Ah , foul shrewd news ! beshrew thy very heart ! I did not think to be so sad to-night As this hath made me . Who was he that said King John did fly an hour or two before The stumbling night did part our weary powers ?
Messenger : Whoever spoke it , it is true , my lord .
