BASTARD : Drawn in the flattering table of her eye ! Hang 'd in the frowning wrinkle of her brow ! And quarter 'd in her heart ! he doth espy Himself love 's traitor : this is pity now , That hang 'd and drawn and quartered , there should be In such a love so vile a lout as he .
BLANCH : My uncle 's will in this respect is mine : If he see aught in you that makes him like , That any thing he sees , which moves his liking , I can with ease translate it to my will ; Or if you will , to speak more properly , I will enforce it easily to my love . Further I will not flatter you , my lord , That all I see in you is worthy love , Than this ; that nothing do I see in you , Though churlish thoughts themselves should be your judge , That I can find should merit any hate .
KING JOHN : What say these young ones ? What say you my niece ?
BLANCH : That she is bound in honour still to do What you in wisdom still vouchsafe to say .
KING JOHN : Speak then , prince Dauphin ; can you love this lady ?
LEWIS : Nay , ask me if I can refrain from love ; For I do love her most unfeignedly .
KING JOHN : Then do I give Volquessen , Touraine , Maine , Poictiers and Anjou , these five provinces , With her to thee ; and this addition more , Full thirty thousand marks of English coin . Philip of France , if thou be pleased withal , Command thy son and daughter to join hands .
KING PHILIP : It likes us well ; young princes , close your hands .
AUSTRIA : And your lips too ; for I am well assured That I did so when I was first assured .
KING PHILIP : Now , citizens of Angiers , ope your gates , Let in that amity which you have made ; For at Saint Mary 's chapel presently The rites of marriage shall be solemnized . Is not the Lady Constance in this troop ? I know she is not , for this match made up Her presence would have interrupted much : Where is she and her son ? tell me , who knows .
LEWIS : She is sad and passionate at your highness ' tent .
KING PHILIP : And , by my faith , this league that we have made Will give her sadness very little cure . Brother of England , how may we content This widow lady ? In her right we came ; Which we , God knows , have turn 'd another way , To our own vantage .
KING JOHN : We will heal up all ; For we 'll create young Arthur Duke of Bretagne And Earl of Richmond ; and this rich fair town We make him lord of . Call the Lady Constance ; Some speedy messenger bid her repair To our solemnity : I trust we shall , If not fill up the measure of her will , Yet in some measure satisfy her so That we shall stop her exclamation . Go we , as well as haste will suffer us , To this unlook 'd for , unprepared pomp .
