SALISBURY : Murder , as hating what himself hath done , Doth lay it open to urge on revenge .
BIGOT : Or , when he doom 'd this beauty to a grave , Found it too precious-princely for a grave .
SALISBURY : Sir Richard , what think you ? have you beheld , Or have you read or heard ? or could you think ? Or do you almost think , although you see , That you do see ? could thought , without this object , Form such another ? This is the very top , The height , the crest , or crest unto the crest , Of murder 's arms : this is the bloodiest shame , The wildest savagery , the vilest stroke , That ever wall-eyed wrath or staring rage Presented to the tears of soft remorse .
PEMBROKE : All murders past do stand excused in this : And this , so sole and so unmatchable , Shall give a holiness , a purity , To the yet unbegotten sin of times ; And prove a deadly bloodshed but a jest , Exampled by this heinous spectacle .
BASTARD : It is a damned and a bloody work ; The graceless action of a heavy hand , If that it be the work of any hand .
SALISBURY : If that it be the work of any hand ! We had a kind of light what would ensue : It is the shameful work of Hubert 's hand ; The practise and the purpose of the king : From whose obedience I forbid my soul , Kneeling before this ruin of sweet life , And breathing to his breathless excellence The incense of a vow , a holy vow , Never to taste the pleasures of the world , Never to be infected with delight , Nor conversant with ease and idleness , Till I have set a glory to this hand , By giving it the worship of revenge .
PEMBROKE BIGOT : Our souls religiously confirm thy words . Enter HUBERT
HUBERT : Lords , I am hot with haste in seeking you : Arthur doth live ; the king hath sent for you .
SALISBURY : O , he is old and blushes not at death . Avaunt , thou hateful villain , get thee gone !
HUBERT : I am no villain .
SALISBURY : Must I rob the law ? Drawing his sword
BASTARD : Your sword is bright , sir ; put it up again .
SALISBURY : Not till I sheathe it in a murderer 's skin .
HUBERT : Stand back , Lord Salisbury , stand back , I say ; By heaven , I think my sword 's as sharp as yours : I would not have you , lord , forget yourself , Nor tempt the danger of my true defence ; Lest I , by marking of your rage , forget Your worth , your greatness and nobility .
BIGOT : Out , dunghill ! darest thou brave a nobleman ?
HUBERT : Not for my life : but yet I dare defend My innocent life against an emperor .
SALISBURY : Thou art a murderer .
HUBERT : Do not prove me so ; Yet I am none : whose tongue soe 'er speaks false , Not truly speaks ; who speaks not truly , lies .
PEMBROKE : Cut him to pieces .
BASTARD : Keep the peace , I say .
SALISBURY : Stand by , or I shall gall you , Faulconbridge .
BASTARD : Thou wert better gall the devil , Salisbury : If thou but frown on me , or stir thy foot , Or teach thy hasty spleen to do me shame , I 'll strike thee dead . Put up thy sword betime ; Or I 'll so maul you and your toasting-iron , That you shall think the devil is come from hell .
BIGOT : What wilt thou do , renowned Faulconbridge ? Second a villain and a murderer ?
HUBERT : Lord Bigot , I am none .
BIGOT : Who kill 'd this prince ?
HUBERT : ' Tis not an hour since I left him well : I honour 'd him , I loved him , and will weep My date of life out for his sweet life 's loss .
