BASTARD : How I have sped among the clergymen , The sums I have collected shall express . But as I travell 'd hither through the land , I find the people strangely fantasied ; Possess 'd with rumours , full of idle dreams , Not knowing what they fear , but full of fear : And here a prophet , that I brought with me From forth the streets of Pomfret , whom I found With many hundreds treading on his heels ; To whom he sung , in rude harsh-sounding rhymes , That , ere the next Ascension-day at noon , Your highness should deliver up your crown .
KING JOHN : Thou idle dreamer , wherefore didst thou so ?
PETER : Foreknowing that the truth will fall out so .
KING JOHN : Hubert , away with him ; imprison him ; And on that day at noon whereon he says I shall yield up my crown , let him be hang 'd . Deliver him to safety ; and return , For I must use thee . O my gentle cousin , Hear 'st thou the news abroad , who are arrived ?
BASTARD : The French , my lord ; men 's mouths are full of it : Besides , I met Lord Bigot and Lord Salisbury , With eyes as red as new-enkindled fire , And others more , going to seek the grave Of Arthur , who they say is kill 'd to-night On your suggestion .
KING JOHN : Gentle kinsman , go , And thrust thyself into their companies : I have a way to win their loves again ; Bring them before me .
BASTARD : I will seek them out .
KING JOHN : Nay , but make haste ; the better foot before . O , let me have no subject enemies , When adverse foreigners affright my towns With dreadful pomp of stout invasion ! Be Mercury , set feathers to thy heels , And fly like thought from them to me again .
BASTARD : The spirit of the time shall teach me speed . Exit
KING JOHN : Spoke like a sprightful noble gentleman . Go after him ; for he perhaps shall need Some messenger betwixt me and the peers ; And be thou he .
Messenger : With all my heart , my liege . Exit
KING JOHN : My mother dead ! Re-enter HUBERT
HUBERT : My lord , they say five moons were seen to-night ; Four fixed , and the fifth did whirl about The other four in wondrous motion .
KING JOHN : Five moons !
HUBERT : Old men and beldams in the streets Do prophesy upon it dangerously : Young Arthur 's death is common in their mouths : And when they talk of him , they shake their heads And whisper one another in the ear ; And he that speaks doth gripe the hearer 's wrist , Whilst he that hears makes fearful action , With wrinkled brows , with nods , with rolling eyes . I saw a smith stand with his hammer , thus , The whilst his iron did on the anvil cool , With open mouth swallowing a tailor 's news ; Who , with his shears and measure in his hand , Standing on slippers , which his nimble haste Had falsely thrust upon contrary feet , Told of a many thousand warlike French That were embattailed and rank 'd in Kent : Another lean unwash 'd artificer Cuts off his tale and talks of Arthur 's death .
KING JOHN : Why seek 'st thou to possess me with these fears ? Why urgest thou so oft young Arthur 's death ? Thy hand hath murder 'd him : I had a mighty cause To wish him dead , but thou hadst none to kill him .
HUBERT : No had , my lord ! why , did you not provoke me ?
KING JOHN : It is the curse of kings to be attended By slaves that take their humours for a warrant To break within the bloody house of life , And on the winking of authority To understand a law , to know the meaning Of dangerous majesty , when perchance it frowns More upon humour than advised respect .
HUBERT : Here is your hand and seal for what I did .
