KING PHILIP : Bind up those tresses . O , what love I note In the fair multitude of those her hairs ! Where but by chance a silver drop hath fallen , Even to that drop ten thousand wiry friends Do glue themselves in sociable grief , Like true , inseparable , faithful loves , Sticking together in calamity .
CONSTANCE : To England , if you will .
KING PHILIP : Bind up your hairs .
CONSTANCE : Yes , that I will ; and wherefore will I do it ? I tore them from their bonds and cried aloud ' O that these hands could so redeem my son , As they have given these hairs their liberty ! ' But now I envy at their liberty , And will again commit them to their bonds , Because my poor child is a prisoner . And , father cardinal , I have heard you say That we shall see and know our friends in heaven : If that be true , I shall see my boy again ; For since the birth of Cain , the first male child , To him that did but yesterday suspire , There was not such a gracious creature born . But now will canker-sorrow eat my bud And chase the native beauty from his cheek And he will look as hollow as a ghost , As dim and meagre as an ague 's fit , And so he 'll die ; and , rising so again , When I shall meet him in the court of heaven I shall not know him : therefore never , never Must I behold my pretty Arthur more .
CARDINAL PANDULPH : You hold too heinous a respect of grief .
CONSTANCE : He talks to me that never had a son .
KING PHILIP : You are as fond of grief as of your child .
CONSTANCE : Grief fills the room up of my absent child , Lies in his bed , walks up and down with me , Puts on his pretty looks , repeats his words , Remembers me of all his gracious parts , Stuffs out his vacant garments with his form ; Then , have I reason to be fond of grief ? Fare you well : had you such a loss as I , I could give better comfort than you do . I will not keep this form upon my head , When there is such disorder in my wit . O Lord ! my boy , my Arthur , my fair son ! My life , my joy , my food , my all the world ! My widow-comfort , and my sorrows ' cure ! Exit
KING PHILIP : I fear some outrage , and I 'll follow her . Exit
LEWIS : There 's nothing in this world can make me joy : Life is as tedious as a twice-told tale Vexing the dull ear of a drowsy man ; And bitter shame hath spoil 'd the sweet world 's taste That it yields nought but shame and bitterness .
CARDINAL PANDULPH : Before the curing of a strong disease , Even in the instant of repair and health , The fit is strongest ; evils that take leave , On their departure most of all show evil : What have you lost by losing of this day ?
LEWIS : All days of glory , joy and happiness .
CARDINAL PANDULPH : If you had won it , certainly you had . No , no ; when Fortune means to men most good , She looks upon them with a threatening eye . ' Tis strange to think how much King John hath lost In this which he accounts so clearly won : Are not you grieved that Arthur is his prisoner ?
LEWIS : As heartily as he is glad he hath him .
