BASTARD : Our country manners give our betters way .
KING JOHN : What is thy name ?
BASTARD : Philip , my liege , so is my name begun , Philip , good old sir Robert 's wife 's eldest son .
KING JOHN : From henceforth bear his name whose form thou bear 'st : Kneel thou down Philip , but rise more great , Arise sir Richard and Plantagenet .
BASTARD : Brother by the mother 's side , give me your hand : My father gave me honour , yours gave land . Now blessed by the hour , by night or day , When I was got , sir Robert was away !
QUEEN ELINOR : The very spirit of Plantagenet ! I am thy grandam , Richard ; call me so .
BASTARD : Madam , by chance but not by truth ; what though ? Something about , a little from the right , In at the window , or else o 'er the hatch : Who dares not stir by day must walk by night , And have is have , however men do catch : Near or far off , well won is still well shot , And I am I , howe 'er I was begot .
KING JOHN : Go , Faulconbridge : now hast thou thy desire ; A landless knight makes thee a landed squire . Come , madam , and come , Richard , we must speed For France , for France , for it is more than need .
BASTARD : Brother , adieu : good fortune come to thee ! For thou wast got i ' the way of honesty . A foot of honour better than I was ; But many a many foot of land the worse . Well , now can I make any Joan a lady . ' Good den , sir Richard ! ' -- ' God-a-mercy , fellow ! ' -- And if his name be George , I 'll call him Peter ; For new-made honour doth forget men 's names ; ' Tis too respective and too sociable For your conversion . Now your traveller , He and his toothpick at my worship 's mess , And when my knightly stomach is sufficed , Why then I suck my teeth and catechise My picked man of countries : ' My dear sir , ' Thus , leaning on mine elbow , I begin , ' I shall beseech you ' --that is question now ; And then comes answer like an Absey book : ' O sir , ' says answer , ' at your best command ; At your employment ; at your service , sir ; ' ' No , sir , ' says question , ' I , sweet sir , at yours : ' And so , ere answer knows what question would , Saving in dialogue of compliment , And talking of the Alps and Apennines , The Pyrenean and the river Po , It draws toward supper in conclusion so . But this is worshipful society And fits the mounting spirit like myself , For he is but a bastard to the time That doth not smack of observation ; And so am I , whether I smack or no ; And not alone in habit and device , Exterior form , outward accoutrement , But from the inward motion to deliver Sweet , sweet , sweet poison for the age 's tooth : Which , though I will not practise to deceive , Yet , to avoid deceit , I mean to learn ; For it shall strew the footsteps of my rising . But who comes in such haste in riding-robes ? What woman-post is this ? hath she no husband That will take pains to blow a horn before her ? Enter LADY FAULCONBRIDGE and GURNEY O me ! it is my mother . How now , good lady ! What brings you here to court so hastily ?
LADY FAULCONBRIDGE : Where is that slave , thy brother ? where is he , That holds in chase mine honour up and down ?
BASTARD : My brother Robert ? old sir Robert 's son ? Colbrand the giant , that same mighty man ? Is it sir Robert 's son that you seek so ?
