KING PHILIP : From that supernal judge , that stirs good thoughts In any breast of strong authority , To look into the blots and stains of right : That judge hath made me guardian to this boy : Under whose warrant I impeach thy wrong And by whose help I mean to chastise it .
KING JOHN : Alack , thou dost usurp authority .
KING PHILIP : Excuse ; it is to beat usurping down .
QUEEN ELINOR : Who is it thou dost call usurper , France ?
CONSTANCE : Let me make answer ; thy usurping son .
QUEEN ELINOR : Out , insolent ! thy bastard shall be king , That thou mayst be a queen , and cheque the world !
CONSTANCE : My bed was ever to thy son as true As thine was to thy husband ; and this boy Liker in feature to his father Geffrey Than thou and John in manners ; being as like As rain to water , or devil to his dam . My boy a bastard ! By my soul , I think His father never was so true begot : It cannot be , an if thou wert his mother .
QUEEN ELINOR : There 's a good mother , boy , that blots thy father .
CONSTANCE : There 's a good grandam , boy , that would blot thee .
AUSTRIA : Peace !
BASTARD : Hear the crier .
AUSTRIA : What the devil art thou ?
BASTARD : One that will play the devil , sir , with you , An a ' may catch your hide and you alone : You are the hare of whom the proverb goes , Whose valour plucks dead lions by the beard ; I 'll smoke your skin-coat , an I catch you right ; Sirrah , look to 't ; i ' faith , I will , i ' faith .
BLANCH : O , well did he become that lion 's robe That did disrobe the lion of that robe !
BASTARD : It lies as sightly on the back of him As great Alcides ' shows upon an ass : But , ass , I 'll take that burthen from your back , Or lay on that shall make your shoulders crack .
AUSTRIA : What craker is this same that deafs our ears With this abundance of superfluous breath ?
KING PHILIP : Lewis , determine what we shall do straight .
LEWIS : Women and fools , break off your conference . King John , this is the very sum of all ; England and Ireland , Anjou , Touraine , Maine , In right of Arthur do I claim of thee : Wilt thou resign them and lay down thy arms ?
KING JOHN : My life as soon : I do defy thee , France . Arthur of Bretagne , yield thee to my hand ; And out of my dear love I 'll give thee more Than e 'er the coward hand of France can win : Submit thee , boy .
QUEEN ELINOR : Come to thy grandam , child .
CONSTANCE : Do , child , go to it grandam , child : Give grandam kingdom , and it grandam will Give it a plum , a cherry , and a fig : There 's a good grandam .
ARTHUR : Good my mother , peace ! I would that I were low laid in my grave : I am not worth this coil that 's made for me .
QUEEN ELINOR : His mother shames him so , poor boy , he weeps .
CONSTANCE : Now shame upon you , whether she does or no ! His grandam 's wrongs , and not his mother 's shames , Draws those heaven-moving pearls from his poor eyes , Which heaven shall take in nature of a fee ; Ay , with these crystal beads heaven shall be bribed To do him justice and revenge on you .
QUEEN ELINOR : Thou monstrous slanderer of heaven and earth !
