HUBERT : My lord--
KING JOHN : Hadst thou but shook thy head or made a pause When I spake darkly what I purposed , Or turn 'd an eye of doubt upon my face , As bid me tell my tale in express words , Deep shame had struck me dumb , made me break off , And those thy fears might have wrought fears in me : But thou didst understand me by my signs And didst in signs again parley with sin ; Yea , without stop , didst let thy heart consent , And consequently thy rude hand to act The deed , which both our tongues held vile to name . Out of my sight , and never see me more ! My nobles leave me ; and my state is braved , Even at my gates , with ranks of foreign powers : Nay , in the body of this fleshly land , This kingdom , this confine of blood and breath , Hostility and civil tumult reigns Between my conscience and my cousin 's death .
HUBERT : Arm you against your other enemies , I 'll make a peace between your soul and you . Young Arthur is alive : this hand of mine Is yet a maiden and an innocent hand , Not painted with the crimson spots of blood . Within this bosom never enter 'd yet The dreadful motion of a murderous thought ; And you have slander 'd nature in my form , Which , howsoever rude exteriorly , Is yet the cover of a fairer mind Than to be butcher of an innocent child .
KING JOHN : Doth Arthur live ? O , haste thee to the peers , Throw this report on their incensed rage , And make them tame to their obedience ! Forgive the comment that my passion made Upon thy feature ; for my rage was blind , And foul imaginary eyes of blood Presented thee more hideous than thou art . O , answer not , but to my closet bring The angry lords with all expedient haste . I conjure thee but slowly ; run more fast . Enter ARTHUR , on the walls
ARTHUR : The wall is high , and yet will I leap down : Good ground , be pitiful and hurt me not ! There 's few or none do know me : if they did , This ship-boy 's semblance hath disguised me quite . I am afraid ; and yet I 'll venture it . If I get down , and do not break my limbs , I 'll find a thousand shifts to get away : As good to die and go , as die and stay . Leaps down O me ! my uncle 's spirit is in these stones : Heaven take my soul , and England keep my bones ! Dies Enter PEMBROKE , SALISBURY , and BIGOT
SALISBURY : Lords , I will meet him at Saint Edmundsbury : It is our safety , and we must embrace This gentle offer of the perilous time .
PEMBROKE : Who brought that letter from the cardinal ?
SALISBURY : The Count Melun , a noble lord of France , Whose private with me of the Dauphin 's love Is much more general than these lines import .
BIGOT : To-morrow morning let us meet him then .
SALISBURY : Or rather then set forward ; for ' twill be Two long days ' journey , lords , or ere we meet . Enter the BASTARD
BASTARD : Once more to-day well met , distemper 'd lords ! The king by me requests your presence straight .
SALISBURY : The king hath dispossess 'd himself of us : We will not line his thin bestained cloak With our pure honours , nor attend the foot That leaves the print of blood where 'er it walks . Return and tell him so : we know the worst .
BASTARD : Whate 'er you think , good words , I think , were best .
SALISBURY : Our griefs , and not our manners , reason now .
BASTARD : But there is little reason in your grief ; Therefore ' twere reason you had manners now .
PEMBROKE : Sir , sir , impatience hath his privilege .
BASTARD : ' Tis true , to hurt his master , no man else .
SALISBURY : This is the prison . What is he lies here ? Seeing ARTHUR
