KING JOHN : Speak on with favour ; we are bent to hear .
First Citizen : That daughter there of Spain , the Lady Blanch , Is niece to England : look upon the years Of Lewis the Dauphin and that lovely maid : If lusty love should go in quest of beauty , Where should he find it fairer than in Blanch ? If zealous love should go in search of virtue , Where should he find it purer than in Blanch ? If love ambitious sought a match of birth , Whose veins bound richer blood than Lady Blanch ? Such as she is , in beauty , virtue , birth , Is the young Dauphin every way complete : If not complete of , say he is not she ; And she again wants nothing , to name want , If want it be not that she is not he : He is the half part of a blessed man , Left to be finished by such as she ; And she a fair divided excellence , Whose fulness of perfection lies in him . O , two such silver currents , when they join , Do glorify the banks that bound them in ; And two such shores to two such streams made one , Two such controlling bounds shall you be , kings , To these two princes , if you marry them . This union shall do more than battery can To our fast-closed gates ; for at this match , With swifter spleen than powder can enforce , The mouth of passage shall we fling wide ope , And give you entrance : but without this match , The sea enraged is not half so deaf , Lions more confident , mountains and rocks More free from motion , no , not Death himself In moral fury half so peremptory , As we to keep this city .
BASTARD : Here 's a stay That shakes the rotten carcass of old Death Out of his rags ! Here 's a large mouth , indeed , That spits forth death and mountains , rocks and seas , Talks as familiarly of roaring lions As maids of thirteen do of puppy-dogs ! What cannoneer begot this lusty blood ? He speaks plain cannon fire , and smoke and bounce ; He gives the bastinado with his tongue : Our ears are cudgell 'd ; not a word of his But buffets better than a fist of France : Zounds ! I was never so bethump 'd with words Since I first call 'd my brother 's father dad .
QUEEN ELINOR : Son , list to this conjunction , make this match ; Give with our niece a dowry large enough : For by this knot thou shalt so surely tie Thy now unsured assurance to the crown , That yon green boy shall have no sun to ripe The bloom that promiseth a mighty fruit . I see a yielding in the looks of France ; Mark , how they whisper : urge them while their souls Are capable of this ambition , Lest zeal , now melted by the windy breath Of soft petitions , pity and remorse , Cool and congeal again to what it was .
First Citizen : Why answer not the double majesties This friendly treaty of our threaten 'd town ?
KING PHILIP : Speak England first , that hath been forward first To speak unto this city : what say you ?
KING JOHN : If that the Dauphin there , thy princely son , Can in this book of beauty read ' I love , ' Her dowry shall weigh equal with a queen : For Anjou and fair Touraine , Maine , Poictiers , And all that we upon this side the sea , Except this city now by us besieged , Find liable to our crown and dignity , Shall gild her bridal bed and make her rich In titles , honours and promotions , As she in beauty , education , blood , Holds hand with any princess of the world .
KING PHILIP : What say 'st thou , boy ? look in the lady 's face .
