KING JOHN : Bedlam , have done .
CONSTANCE : I have but this to say , That he is not only plagued for her sin , But God hath made her sin and her the plague On this removed issue , plague for her And with her plague ; her sin his injury , Her injury the beadle to her sin , All punish 'd in the person of this child , And all for her ; a plague upon her !
QUEEN ELINOR : Thou unadvised scold , I can produce A will that bars the title of thy son .
CONSTANCE : Ay , who doubts that ? a will ! a wicked will : A woman 's will ; a canker 'd grandam 's will !
KING PHILIP : Peace , lady ! pause , or be more temperate : It ill beseems this presence to cry aim To these ill-tuned repetitions . Some trumpet summon hither to the walls These men of Angiers : let us hear them speak Whose title they admit , Arthur 's or John 's . Trumpet sounds . Enter certain Citizens upon the walls
First Citizen : Who is it that hath warn 'd us to the walls ?
KING PHILIP : ' Tis France , for England .
KING JOHN : England , for itself . You men of Angiers , and my loving subjects--
KING PHILIP : You loving men of Angiers , Arthur 's subjects , Our trumpet call 'd you to this gentle parle--
KING JOHN : For our advantage ; therefore hear us first . These flags of France , that are advanced here Before the eye and prospect of your town , Have hither march 'd to your endamagement : The cannons have their bowels full of wrath , And ready mounted are they to spit forth Their iron indignation ' gainst your walls : All preparation for a bloody siege All merciless proceeding by these French Confronts your city 's eyes , your winking gates ; And but for our approach those sleeping stones , That as a waist doth girdle you about , By the compulsion of their ordinance By this time from their fixed beds of lime Had been dishabited , and wide havoc made For bloody power to rush upon your peace . But on the sight of us your lawful king , Who painfully with much expedient march Have brought a countercheque before your gates , To save unscratch 'd your city 's threatened cheeks , Behold , the French amazed vouchsafe a parle ; And now , instead of bullets wrapp 'd in fire , To make a shaking fever in your walls , They shoot but calm words folded up in smoke , To make a faithless error in your ears : Which trust accordingly , kind citizens , And let us in , your king , whose labour 'd spirits , Forwearied in this action of swift speed , Crave harbourage within your city walls .
