HUBERT : I can heat it , boy .
ARTHUR : No , in good sooth : the fire is dead with grief , Being create for comfort , to be used In undeserved extremes : see else yourself ; There is no malice in this burning coal ; The breath of heaven has blown his spirit out And strew 'd repentent ashes on his head .
HUBERT : But with my breath I can revive it , boy .
ARTHUR : An if you do , you will but make it blush And glow with shame of your proceedings , Hubert : Nay , it perchance will sparkle in your eyes ; And like a dog that is compell 'd to fight , Snatch at his master that doth tarre him on . All things that you should use to do me wrong Deny their office : only you do lack That mercy which fierce fire and iron extends , Creatures of note for mercy-lacking uses .
HUBERT : Well , see to live ; I will not touch thine eye For all the treasure that thine uncle owes : Yet am I sworn and I did purpose , boy , With this same very iron to burn them out .
ARTHUR : O , now you look like Hubert ! all this while You were disguised .
HUBERT : Peace ; no more . Adieu . Your uncle must not know but you are dead ; I 'll fill these dogged spies with false reports : And , pretty child , sleep doubtless and secure , That Hubert , for the wealth of all the world , Will not offend thee .
ARTHUR : O heaven ! I thank you , Hubert .
HUBERT : Silence ; no more : go closely in with me : Much danger do I undergo for thee . Enter KING JOHN , PEMBROKE , SALISBURY , and other Lords
KING JOHN : Here once again we sit , once again crown 'd , And looked upon , I hope , with cheerful eyes .
PEMBROKE : This ' once again , ' but that your highness pleased , Was once superfluous : you were crown 'd before , And that high royalty was ne 'er pluck 'd off , The faiths of men ne 'er stained with revolt ; Fresh expectation troubled not the land With any long 'd-for change or better state .
SALISBURY : Therefore , to be possess 'd with double pomp , To guard a title that was rich before , To gild refined gold , to paint the lily , To throw a perfume on the violet , To smooth the ice , or add another hue Unto the rainbow , or with taper-light To seek the beauteous eye of heaven to garnish , Is wasteful and ridiculous excess .
PEMBROKE : But that your royal pleasure must be done , This act is as an ancient tale new told , And in the last repeating troublesome , Being urged at a time unseasonable .
SALISBURY : In this the antique and well noted face Of plain old form is much disfigured ; And , like a shifted wind unto a sail , It makes the course of thoughts to fetch about , Startles and frights consideration , Makes sound opinion sick and truth suspected , For putting on so new a fashion 'd robe .
PEMBROKE : When workmen strive to do better than well , They do confound their skill in covetousness ; And oftentimes excusing of a fault Doth make the fault the worse by the excuse , As patches set upon a little breach Discredit more in hiding of the fault Than did the fault before it was so patch 'd .
SALISBURY : To this effect , before you were new crown 'd , We breathed our counsel : but it pleased your highness To overbear it , and we are all well pleased , Since all and every part of what we would Doth make a stand at what your highness will .
KING JOHN : Some reasons of this double coronation I have possess 'd you with and think them strong ; And more , more strong , then lesser is my fear , I shall indue you with : meantime but ask What you would have reform 'd that is not well , And well shall you perceive how willingly I will both hear and grant you your requests .
