BIGOT : Away toward Bury , to the Dauphin there !
PEMBROKE : There tell the king he may inquire us out .
BASTARD : Here 's a good world ! Knew you of this fair work ? Beyond the infinite and boundless reach Of mercy , if thou didst this deed of death , Art thou damn 'd , Hubert .
HUBERT : Do but hear me , sir .
BASTARD : Ha ! I 'll tell thee what ; Thou 'rt damn 'd as black--nay , nothing is so black ; Thou art more deep damn 'd than Prince Lucifer : There is not yet so ugly a fiend of hell As thou shalt be , if thou didst kill this child .
HUBERT : Upon my soul--
BASTARD : If thou didst but consent To this most cruel act , do but despair ; And if thou want 'st a cord , the smallest thread That ever spider twisted from her womb Will serve to strangle thee , a rush will be a beam To hang thee on ; or wouldst thou drown thyself , Put but a little water in a spoon , And it shall be as all the ocean , Enough to stifle such a villain up . I do suspect thee very grievously .
HUBERT : If I in act , consent , or sin of thought , Be guilty of the stealing that sweet breath Which was embounded in this beauteous clay , Let hell want pains enough to torture me . I left him well .
BASTARD : Go , bear him in thine arms . I am amazed , methinks , and lose my way Among the thorns and dangers of this world . How easy dost thou take all England up ! From forth this morsel of dead royalty , The life , the right and truth of all this realm Is fled to heaven ; and England now is left To tug and scamble and to part by the teeth The unowed interest of proud-swelling state . Now for the bare-pick 'd bone of majesty Doth dogged war bristle his angry crest And snarleth in the gentle eyes of peace : Now powers from home and discontents at home Meet in one line ; and vast confusion waits , As doth a raven on a sick-fall 'n beast , The imminent decay of wrested pomp . Now happy he whose cloak and cincture can Hold out this tempest . Bear away that child And follow me with speed : I 'll to the king : A thousand businesses are brief in hand , And heaven itself doth frown upon the land . Enter KING JOHN , CARDINAL PANDULPH , and Attendants
KING JOHN : Thus have I yielded up into your hand The circle of my glory . Giving the crown
CARDINAL PANDULPH : Take again From this my hand , as holding of the pope Your sovereign greatness and authority .
KING JOHN : Now keep your holy word : go meet the French , And from his holiness use all your power To stop their marches ' fore we are inflamed . Our discontented counties do revolt ; Our people quarrel with obedience , Swearing allegiance and the love of soul To stranger blood , to foreign royalty . This inundation of mistemper 'd humour Rests by you only to be qualified : Then pause not ; for the present time 's so sick , That present medicine must be minister 'd , Or overthrow incurable ensues .
CARDINAL PANDULPH : It was my breath that blew this tempest up , Upon your stubborn usage of the pope ; But since you are a gentle convertite , My tongue shall hush again this storm of war And make fair weather in your blustering land . On this Ascension-day , remember well , Upon your oath of service to the pope , Go I to make the French lay down their arms . Exit
KING JOHN : Is this Ascension-day ? Did not the prophet Say that before Ascension-day at noon My crown I should give off ? Even so I have : I did suppose it should be on constraint : But , heaven be thank 'd , it is but voluntary . Enter the BASTARD
