CONSTANCE : O , take his mother 's thanks , a widow 's thanks , Till your strong hand shall help to give him strength To make a more requital to your love !
AUSTRIA : The peace of heaven is theirs that lift their swords In such a just and charitable war .
KING PHILIP : Well then , to work : our cannon shall be bent Against the brows of this resisting town . Call for our chiefest men of discipline , To cull the plots of best advantages : We 'll lay before this town our royal bones , Wade to the market-place in Frenchmen 's blood , But we will make it subject to this boy .
CONSTANCE : Stay for an answer to your embassy , Lest unadvised you stain your swords with blood : My Lord Chatillon may from England bring , That right in peace which here we urge in war , And then we shall repent each drop of blood That hot rash haste so indirectly shed . Enter CHATILLON
KING PHILIP : A wonder , lady ! lo , upon thy wish , Our messenger Chatillon is arrived ! What England says , say briefly , gentle lord ; We coldly pause for thee ; Chatillon , speak .
CHATILLON : Then turn your forces from this paltry siege And stir them up against a mightier task . England , impatient of your just demands , Hath put himself in arms : the adverse winds , Whose leisure I have stay 'd , have given him time To land his legions all as soon as I ; His marches are expedient to this town , His forces strong , his soldiers confident . With him along is come the mother-queen , An Ate , stirring him to blood and strife ; With her her niece , the Lady Blanch of Spain ; With them a bastard of the king 's deceased , And all the unsettled humours of the land , Rash , inconsiderate , fiery voluntaries , With ladies ' faces and fierce dragons ' spleens , Have sold their fortunes at their native homes , Bearing their birthrights proudly on their backs , To make hazard of new fortunes here : In brief , a braver choice of dauntless spirits Than now the English bottoms have waft o 'er Did nearer float upon the swelling tide , To do offence and scath in Christendom . Drum beats The interruption of their churlish drums Cuts off more circumstance : they are at hand , To parley or to fight ; therefore prepare .
KING PHILIP : How much unlook 'd for is this expedition !
AUSTRIA : By how much unexpected , by so much We must awake endavour for defence ; For courage mounteth with occasion : Let them be welcome then : we are prepared . Enter KING JOHN , QUEEN ELINOR , BLANCH , the BASTARD , Lords , and forces
KING JOHN : Peace be to France , if France in peace permit Our just and lineal entrance to our own ; If not , bleed France , and peace ascend to heaven , Whiles we , God 's wrathful agent , do correct Their proud contempt that beats His peace to heaven .
KING PHILIP : Peace be to England , if that war return From France to England , there to live in peace . England we love ; and for that England 's sake With burden of our armour here we sweat . This toil of ours should be a work of thine ; But thou from loving England art so far , That thou hast under-wrought his lawful king Cut off the sequence of posterity , Out-faced infant state and done a rape Upon the maiden virtue of the crown . Look here upon thy brother Geffrey 's face ; These eyes , these brows , were moulded out of his : This little abstract doth contain that large Which died in Geffrey , and the hand of time Shall draw this brief into as huge a volume . That Geffrey was thy elder brother born , And this his son ; England was Geffrey 's right And this is Geffrey 's : in the name of God How comes it then that thou art call 'd a king , When living blood doth in these temples beat , Which owe the crown that thou o 'ermasterest ?
