CONSTANCE : Gone to be married ! gone to swear a peace ! False blood to false blood join 'd ! gone to be friends ! Shall Lewis have Blanch , and Blanch those provinces ? It is not so ; thou hast misspoke , misheard : Be well advised , tell o 'er thy tale again : It cannot be ; thou dost but say ' tis so : I trust I may not trust thee ; for thy word Is but the vain breath of a common man : Believe me , I do not believe thee , man ; I have a king 's oath to the contrary . Thou shalt be punish 'd for thus frighting me , For I am sick and capable of fears , Oppress 'd with wrongs and therefore full of fears , A widow , husbandless , subject to fears , A woman , naturally born to fears ; And though thou now confess thou didst but jest , With my vex 'd spirits I cannot take a truce , But they will quake and tremble all this day . What dost thou mean by shaking of thy head ? Why dost thou look so sadly on my son ? What means that hand upon that breast of thine ? Why holds thine eye that lamentable rheum , Like a proud river peering o 'er his bounds ? Be these sad signs confirmers of thy words ? Then speak again ; not all thy former tale , But this one word , whether thy tale be true .
SALISBURY : As true as I believe you think them false That give you cause to prove my saying true .
CONSTANCE : O , if thou teach me to believe this sorrow , Teach thou this sorrow how to make me die , And let belief and life encounter so As doth the fury of two desperate men Which in the very meeting fall and die . Lewis marry Blanch ! O boy , then where art thou ? France friend with England , what becomes of me ? Fellow , be gone : I cannot brook thy sight : This news hath made thee a most ugly man .
SALISBURY : What other harm have I , good lady , done , But spoke the harm that is by others done ?
CONSTANCE : Which harm within itself so heinous is As it makes harmful all that speak of it .
ARTHUR : I do beseech you , madam , be content .
CONSTANCE : If thou , that bid 'st me be content , wert grim , Ugly and slanderous to thy mother 's womb , Full of unpleasing blots and sightless stains , Lame , foolish , crooked , swart , prodigious , Patch 'd with foul moles and eye-offending marks , I would not care , I then would be content , For then I should not love thee , no , nor thou Become thy great birth nor deserve a crown . But thou art fair , and at thy birth , dear boy , Nature and Fortune join 'd to make thee great : Of Nature 's gifts thou mayst with lilies boast , And with the half-blown rose . But Fortune , O , She is corrupted , changed and won from thee ; She adulterates hourly with thine uncle John , And with her golden hand hath pluck 'd on France To tread down fair respect of sovereignty , And made his majesty the bawd to theirs . France is a bawd to Fortune and King John , That strumpet Fortune , that usurping John ! Tell me , thou fellow , is not France forsworn ? Envenom him with words , or get thee gone And leave those woes alone which I alone Am bound to under-bear .
SALISBURY : Pardon me , madam , I may not go without you to the kings .
