KING JOHN : Let it be so : I do commit his youth To your direction . Hubert , what news with you ? Taking him apart
PEMBROKE : This is the man should do the bloody deed ; He show 'd his warrant to a friend of mine : The image of a wicked heinous fault Lives in his eye ; that close aspect of his Does show the mood of a much troubled breast ; And I do fearfully believe ' tis done , What we so fear 'd he had a charge to do .
SALISBURY : The colour of the king doth come and go Between his purpose and his conscience , Like heralds ' twixt two dreadful battles set : His passion is so ripe , it needs must break .
PEMBROKE : And when it breaks , I fear will issue thence The foul corruption of a sweet child 's death .
KING JOHN : We cannot hold mortality 's strong hand : Good lords , although my will to give is living , The suit which you demand is gone and dead : He tells us Arthur is deceased to-night .
SALISBURY : Indeed we fear 'd his sickness was past cure .
PEMBROKE : Indeed we heard how near his death he was Before the child himself felt he was sick : This must be answer 'd either here or hence .
KING JOHN : Why do you bend such solemn brows on me ? Think you I bear the shears of destiny ? Have I commandment on the pulse of life ?
SALISBURY : It is apparent foul play ; and ' tis shame That greatness should so grossly offer it : So thrive it in your game ! and so , farewell .
PEMBROKE : Stay yet , Lord Salisbury ; I 'll go with thee , And find the inheritance of this poor child , His little kingdom of a forced grave . That blood which owed the breadth of all this isle , Three foot of it doth hold : bad world the while ! This must not be thus borne : this will break out To all our sorrows , and ere long I doubt .
KING JOHN : They burn in indignation . I repent : There is no sure foundation set on blood , No certain life achieved by others ' death . Enter a Messenger A fearful eye thou hast : where is that blood That I have seen inhabit in those cheeks ? So foul a sky clears not without a storm : Pour down thy weather : how goes all in France ?
Messenger : From France to England . Never such a power For any foreign preparation Was levied in the body of a land . The copy of your speed is learn 'd by them ; For when you should be told they do prepare , The tidings come that they are all arrived .
KING JOHN : O , where hath our intelligence been drunk ? Where hath it slept ? Where is my mother 's care , That such an army could be drawn in France , And she not hear of it ?
Messenger : My liege , her ear Is stopp 'd with dust ; the first of April died Your noble mother : and , as I hear , my lord , The Lady Constance in a frenzy died Three days before : but this from rumour 's tongue I idly heard ; if true or false I know not .
KING JOHN : Withhold thy speed , dreadful occasion ! O , make a league with me , till I have pleased My discontented peers ! What ! mother dead ! How wildly then walks my estate in France ! Under whose conduct came those powers of France That thou for truth givest out are landed here ?
Messenger : Under the Dauphin .
KING JOHN : Thou hast made me giddy With these ill tidings . Enter the BASTARD and PETER of Pomfret Now , what says the world To your proceedings ? do not seek to stuff My head with more ill news , for it is full .
BASTARD : But if you be afeard to hear the worst , Then let the worst unheard fall on your bead .
