First Citizen : In brief , we are the king of England 's subjects : For him , and in his right , we hold this town .
KING JOHN : Acknowledge then the king , and let me in .
First Citizen : That can we not ; but he that proves the king , To him will we prove loyal : till that time Have we ramm 'd up our gates against the world .
KING JOHN : Doth not the crown of England prove the king ? And if not that , I bring you witnesses , Twice fifteen thousand hearts of England 's breed , --
BASTARD : Bastards , and else .
KING JOHN : To verify our title with their lives .
KING PHILIP : As many and as well-born bloods as those , --
BASTARD : Some bastards too .
KING PHILIP : Stand in his face to contradict his claim .
First Citizen : Till you compound whose right is worthiest , We for the worthiest hold the right from both .
KING JOHN : Then God forgive the sin of all those souls That to their everlasting residence , Before the dew of evening fall , shall fleet , In dreadful trial of our kingdom 's king !
KING PHILIP : Amen , amen ! Mount , chevaliers ! to arms !
BASTARD : Saint George , that swinged the dragon , and e 'er since Sits on his horseback at mine hostess ' door , Teach us some fence ! To AUSTRIA Sirrah , were I at home , At your den , sirrah , with your lioness I would set an ox-head to your lion 's hide , And make a monster of you .
AUSTRIA : Peace ! no more .
BASTARD : O tremble , for you hear the lion roar .
KING JOHN : Up higher to the plain ; where we 'll set forth In best appointment all our regiments .
BASTARD : Speed then , to take advantage of the field .
KING PHILIP : It shall be so ; and at the other hill Command the rest to stand . God and our right ! Here after excursions , enter the Herald of France , with trumpets , to the gates
French Herald : You men of Angiers , open wide your gates , And let young Arthur , Duke of Bretagne , in , Who by the hand of France this day hath made Much work for tears in many an English mother , Whose sons lie scattered on the bleeding ground ; Many a widow 's husband grovelling lies , Coldly embracing the discolour 'd earth ; And victory , with little loss , doth play Upon the dancing banners of the French , Who are at hand , triumphantly display 'd , To enter conquerors and to proclaim Arthur of Bretagne England 's king and yours . Enter English Herald , with trumpet
English Herald : Rejoice , you men of Angiers , ring your bells : King John , your king and England 's doth approach , Commander of this hot malicious day : Their armours , that march 'd hence so silver-bright , Hither return all gilt with Frenchmen 's blood ; There stuck no plume in any English crest That is removed by a staff of France ; Our colours do return in those same hands That did display them when we first march 'd forth ; And , like a troop of jolly huntsmen , come Our lusty English , all with purpled hands , Dyed in the dying slaughter of their foes : Open your gates and gives the victors way .
First Citizen : Heralds , from off our towers we might behold , From first to last , the onset and retire Of both your armies ; whose equality By our best eyes cannot be censured : Blood hath bought blood and blows have answered blows ; Strength match 'd with strength , and power confronted power : Both are alike ; and both alike we like . One must prove greatest : while they weigh so even , We hold our town for neither , yet for both . Re-enter KING JOHN and KING PHILIP , with their powers , severally
