KING JOHN : Would not my lords return to me again , After they heard young Arthur was alive ?
BASTARD : They found him dead and cast into the streets , An empty casket , where the jewel of life By some damn 'd hand was robb 'd and ta 'en away .
KING JOHN : That villain Hubert told me he did live .
BASTARD : So , on my soul , he did , for aught he knew . But wherefore do you droop ? why look you sad ? Be great in act , as you have been in thought ; Let not the world see fear and sad distrust Govern the motion of a kingly eye : Be stirring as the time ; be fire with fire ; Threaten the threatener and outface the brow Of bragging horror : so shall inferior eyes , That borrow their behaviors from the great , Grow great by your example and put on The dauntless spirit of resolution . Away , and glister like the god of war , When he intendeth to become the field : Show boldness and aspiring confidence . What , shall they seek the lion in his den , And fright him there ? and make him tremble there ? O , let it not be said : forage , and run To meet displeasure farther from the doors , And grapple with him ere he comes so nigh .
KING JOHN : The legate of the pope hath been with me , And I have made a happy peace with him ; And he hath promised to dismiss the powers Led by the Dauphin .
BASTARD : O inglorious league ! Shall we , upon the footing of our land , Send fair-play orders and make compromise , Insinuation , parley and base truce To arms invasive ? shall a beardless boy , A cocker 'd silken wanton , brave our fields , And flesh his spirit in a warlike soil , Mocking the air with colours idly spread , And find no cheque ? Let us , my liege , to arms : Perchance the cardinal cannot make your peace ; Or if he do , let it at least be said They saw we had a purpose of defence .
KING JOHN : Have thou the ordering of this present time .
BASTARD : Away , then , with good courage ! yet , I know , Our party may well meet a prouder foe . Enter , in arms , LEWIS , SALISBURY , MELUN , PEMBROKE , BIGOT , and Soldiers
LEWIS : My Lord Melun , let this be copied out , And keep it safe for our remembrance : Return the precedent to these lords again ; That , having our fair order written down , Both they and we , perusing o 'er these notes , May know wherefore we took the sacrament And keep our faiths firm and inviolable .
