LEWIS : A noble temper dost thou show in this ; And great affections wrestling in thy bosom Doth make an earthquake of nobility . O , what a noble combat hast thou fought Between compulsion and a brave respect ! Let me wipe off this honourable dew , That silverly doth progress on thy cheeks : My heart hath melted at a lady 's tears , Being an ordinary inundation ; But this effusion of such manly drops , This shower , blown up by tempest of the soul , Startles mine eyes , and makes me more amazed Than had I seen the vaulty top of heaven Figured quite o 'er with burning meteors . Lift up thy brow , renowned Salisbury , And with a great heart heave away the storm : Commend these waters to those baby eyes That never saw the giant world enraged ; Nor met with fortune other than at feasts , Full of warm blood , of mirth , of gossiping . Come , come ; for thou shalt thrust thy hand as deep Into the purse of rich prosperity As Lewis himself : so , nobles , shall you all , That knit your sinews to the strength of mine . And even there , methinks , an angel spake : Enter CARDINAL PANDULPH Look , where the holy legate comes apace , To give us warrant from the hand of heaven And on our actions set the name of right With holy breath .
CARDINAL PANDULPH : Hail , noble prince of France ! The next is this , King John hath reconciled Himself to Rome ; his spirit is come in , That so stood out against the holy church , The great metropolis and see of Rome : Therefore thy threatening colours now wind up ; And tame the savage spirit of wild war , That like a lion foster 'd up at hand , It may lie gently at the foot of peace , And be no further harmful than in show .
LEWIS : Your grace shall pardon me , I will not back : I am too high-born to be propertied , To be a secondary at control , Or useful serving-man and instrument , To any sovereign state throughout the world . Your breath first kindled the dead coal of wars Between this chastised kingdom and myself , And brought in matter that should feed this fire ; And now ' tis far too huge to be blown out With that same weak wind which enkindled it . You taught me how to know the face of right , Acquainted me with interest to this land , Yea , thrust this enterprise into my heart ; And come ye now to tell me John hath made His peace with Rome ? What is that peace to me ? I , by the honour of my marriage-bed , After young Arthur , claim this land for mine ; And , now it is half-conquer 'd , must I back Because that John hath made his peace with Rome ? Am I Rome 's slave ? What penny hath Rome borne , What men provided , what munition sent , To underprop this action ? Is 't not I That undergo this charge ? who else but I , And such as to my claim are liable , Sweat in this business and maintain this war ? Have I not heard these islanders shout out ' Vive le roi ! ' as I have bank 'd their towns ? Have I not here the best cards for the game , To win this easy match play 'd for a crown ? And shall I now give o 'er the yielded set ? No , no , on my soul , it never shall be said .
CARDINAL PANDULPH : You look but on the outside of this work .
LEWIS : Outside or inside , I will not return Till my attempt so much be glorified As to my ample hope was promised Before I drew this gallant head of war , And cull 'd these fiery spirits from the world , To outlook conquest and to win renown Even in the jaws of danger and of death . Trumpet sounds What lusty trumpet thus doth summon us ? Enter the BASTARD , attended
