CARDINAL PANDULPH : All form is formless , order orderless , Save what is opposite to England 's love . Therefore to arms ! be champion of our church , Or let the church , our mother , breathe her curse , A mother 's curse , on her revolting son . France , thou mayst hold a serpent by the tongue , A chafed lion by the mortal paw , A fasting tiger safer by the tooth , Than keep in peace that hand which thou dost hold .
KING PHILIP : I may disjoin my hand , but not my faith .
CARDINAL PANDULPH : So makest thou faith an enemy to faith ; And like a civil war set 'st oath to oath , Thy tongue against thy tongue . O , let thy vow First made to heaven , first be to heaven perform 'd , That is , to be the champion of our church ! What since thou sworest is sworn against thyself And may not be performed by thyself , For that which thou hast sworn to do amiss Is not amiss when it is truly done , And being not done , where doing tends to ill , The truth is then most done not doing it : The better act of purposes mistook Is to mistake again ; though indirect , Yet indirection thereby grows direct , And falsehood falsehood cures , as fire cools fire Within the scorched veins of one new-burn 'd . It is religion that doth make vows kept ; But thou hast sworn against religion , By what thou swear 'st against the thing thou swear 'st , And makest an oath the surety for thy truth Against an oath : the truth thou art unsure To swear , swears only not to be forsworn ; Else what a mockery should it be to swear ! But thou dost swear only to be forsworn ; And most forsworn , to keep what thou dost swear . Therefore thy later vows against thy first Is in thyself rebellion to thyself ; And better conquest never canst thou make Than arm thy constant and thy nobler parts Against these giddy loose suggestions : Upon which better part our prayers come in , If thou vouchsafe them . But if not , then know The peril of our curses light on thee So heavy as thou shalt not shake them off , But in despair die under their black weight .
AUSTRIA : Rebellion , flat rebellion !
BASTARD : Will 't not be ? Will not a calfs-skin stop that mouth of thine ?
LEWIS : Father , to arms !
BLANCH : Upon thy wedding-day ? Against the blood that thou hast married ? What , shall our feast be kept with slaughter 'd men ? Shall braying trumpets and loud churlish drums , Clamours of hell , be measures to our pomp ? O husband , hear me ! ay , alack , how new Is husband in my mouth ! even for that name , Which till this time my tongue did ne 'er pronounce , Upon my knee I beg , go not to arms Against mine uncle .
CONSTANCE : O , upon my knee , Made hard with kneeling , I do pray to thee , Thou virtuous Dauphin , alter not the doom Forethought by heaven !
BLANCH : Now shall I see thy love : what motive may Be stronger with thee than the name of wife ?
CONSTANCE : That which upholdeth him that thee upholds , His honour : O , thine honour , Lewis , thine honour !
LEWIS : I muse your majesty doth seem so cold , When such profound respects do pull you on .
CARDINAL PANDULPH : I will denounce a curse upon his head .
KING PHILIP : Thou shalt not need . England , I will fall from thee .
CONSTANCE : O fair return of banish 'd majesty !
QUEEN ELINOR : O foul revolt of French inconstancy !
KING JOHN : France , thou shalt rue this hour within this hour .
BASTARD : Old Time the clock-setter , that bald sexton Time , Is it as he will ? well then , France shall rue .
