HUBERT : His words do take possession of my bosom . Read here , young Arthur . Showing a paper Aside How now , foolish rheum ! Turning dispiteous torture out of door ! I must be brief , lest resolution drop Out at mine eyes in tender womanish tears . Can you not read it ? Is it not fair writ ?
ARTHUR : Too fairly , Hubert , for so foul effect : Must you with hot irons burn out both mine eyes ?
HUBERT : Young boy , I must .
ARTHUR : And will you ?
HUBERT : And I will .
ARTHUR : Have you the heart ? When your head did but ache , I knit my handercher about your brows , The best I had , a princess wrought it me , And I did never ask it you again ; And with my hand at midnight held your head , And like the watchful minutes to the hour , Still and anon cheer 'd up the heavy time , Saying , ' What lack you ? ' and ' Where lies your grief ? ' Or ' What good love may I perform for you ? ' Many a poor man 's son would have lien still And ne 'er have spoke a loving word to you ; But you at your sick service had a prince . Nay , you may think my love was crafty love And call it cunning : do , an if you will : If heaven be pleased that you must use me ill , Why then you must . Will you put out mine eyes ? These eyes that never did nor never shall So much as frown on you .
HUBERT : I have sworn to do it ; And with hot irons must I burn them out .
ARTHUR : Ah , none but in this iron age would do it ! The iron of itself , though heat red-hot , Approaching near these eyes , would drink my tears And quench his fiery indignation Even in the matter of mine innocence ; Nay , after that , consume away in rust But for containing fire to harm mine eye . Are you more stubborn-hard than hammer 'd iron ? An if an angel should have come to me And told me Hubert should put out mine eyes , I would not have believed him , --no tongue but Hubert 's .
HUBERT : Come forth . Stamps Re-enter Executioners , with a cord , irons , & c Do as I bid you do .
ARTHUR : O , save me , Hubert , save me ! my eyes are out Even with the fierce looks of these bloody men .
HUBERT : Give me the iron , I say , and bind him here .
ARTHUR : Alas , what need you be so boisterous-rough ? I will not struggle , I will stand stone-still . For heaven sake , Hubert , let me not be bound ! Nay , hear me , Hubert , drive these men away , And I will sit as quiet as a lamb ; I will not stir , nor wince , nor speak a word , Nor look upon the iron angerly : Thrust but these men away , and I 'll forgive you , Whatever torment you do put me to .
HUBERT : Go , stand within ; let me alone with him .
First Executioner : I am best pleased to be from such a deed .
ARTHUR : Alas , I then have chid away my friend ! He hath a stern look , but a gentle heart : Let him come back , that his compassion may Give life to yours .
HUBERT : Come , boy , prepare yourself .
ARTHUR : Is there no remedy ?
HUBERT : None , but to lose your eyes .
ARTHUR : O heaven , that there were but a mote in yours , A grain , a dust , a gnat , a wandering hair , Any annoyance in that precious sense ! Then feeling what small things are boisterous there , Your vile intent must needs seem horrible .
HUBERT : Is this your promise ? go to , hold your tongue .
