KING PHILIP : ' Tis true , fair daughter ; and this blessed day Ever in France shall be kept festival : To solemnize this day the glorious sun Stays in his course and plays the alchemist , Turning with splendor of his precious eye The meagre cloddy earth to glittering gold : The yearly course that brings this day about Shall never see it but a holiday .
CONSTANCE : A wicked day , and not a holy day ! Rising What hath this day deserved ? what hath it done , That it in golden letters should be set Among the high tides in the calendar ? Nay , rather turn this day out of the week , This day of shame , oppression , perjury . Or , if it must stand still , let wives with child Pray that their burthens may not fall this day , Lest that their hopes prodigiously be cross 'd : But on this day let seamen fear no wreck ; No bargains break that are not this day made : This day , all things begun come to ill end , Yea , faith itself to hollow falsehood change !
KING PHILIP : By heaven , lady , you shall have no cause To curse the fair proceedings of this day : Have I not pawn 'd to you my majesty ?
CONSTANCE : You have beguiled me with a counterfeit Resembling majesty , which , being touch 'd and tried , Proves valueless : you are forsworn , forsworn ; You came in arms to spill mine enemies ' blood , But now in arms you strengthen it with yours : The grappling vigour and rough frown of war Is cold in amity and painted peace , And our oppression hath made up this league . Arm , arm , you heavens , against these perjured kings ! A widow cries ; be husband to me , heavens ! Let not the hours of this ungodly day Wear out the day in peace ; but , ere sunset , Set armed discord ' twixt these perjured kings ! Hear me , O , hear me !
AUSTRIA : Lady Constance , peace !
CONSTANCE : War ! war ! no peace ! peace is to me a war O Lymoges ! O Austria ! thou dost shame That bloody spoil : thou slave , thou wretch , thou coward ! Thou little valiant , great in villany ! Thou ever strong upon the stronger side ! Thou Fortune 's champion that dost never fight But when her humorous ladyship is by To teach thee safety ! thou art perjured too , And soothest up greatness . What a fool art thou , A ramping fool , to brag and stamp and swear Upon my party ! Thou cold-blooded slave , Hast thou not spoke like thunder on my side , Been sworn my soldier , bidding me depend Upon thy stars , thy fortune and thy strength , And dost thou now fall over to my fores ? Thou wear a lion 's hide ! doff it for shame , And hang a calf 's-skin on those recreant limbs .
AUSTRIA : O , that a man should speak those words to me !
BASTARD : And hang a calf 's-skin on those recreant limbs .
AUSTRIA : Thou darest not say so , villain , for thy life .
BASTARD : And hang a calf 's-skin on those recreant limbs .
KING JOHN : We like not this ; thou dost forget thyself . Enter CARDINAL PANDULPH
KING PHILIP : Here comes the holy legate of the pope .
CARDINAL PANDULPH : Hail , you anointed deputies of heaven ! To thee , King John , my holy errand is . I Pandulph , of fair Milan cardinal , And from Pope Innocent the legate here , Do in his name religiously demand Why thou against the church , our holy mother , So wilfully dost spurn ; and force perforce Keep Stephen Langton , chosen archbishop Of Canterbury , from that holy see ? This , in our foresaid holy father 's name , Pope Innocent , I do demand of thee .
