CARDINAL PANDULPH : The Dauphin is too wilful-opposite , And will not temporize with my entreaties ; He flatly says he 'll not lay down his arms .
BASTARD : By all the blood that ever fury breathed , The youth says well . Now hear our English king ; For thus his royalty doth speak in me . He is prepared , and reason too he should : This apish and unmannerly approach , This harness 'd masque and unadvised revel , This unhair 'd sauciness and boyish troops , The king doth smile at ; and is well prepared To whip this dwarfish war , these pigmy arms , From out the circle of his territories . That hand which had the strength , even at your door , To cudgel you and make you take the hatch , To dive like buckets in concealed wells , To crouch in litter of your stable planks , To lie like pawns lock 'd up in chests and trunks , To hug with swine , to seek sweet safety out In vaults and prisons , and to thrill and shake Even at the crying of your nation 's crow , Thinking his voice an armed Englishman ; Shall that victorious hand be feebled here , That in your chambers gave you chastisement ? No : know the gallant monarch is in arms And like an eagle o 'er his aery towers , To souse annoyance that comes near his nest . And you degenerate , you ingrate revolts , You bloody Neroes , ripping up the womb Of your dear mother England , blush for shame ; For your own ladies and pale-visaged maids Like Amazons come tripping after drums , Their thimbles into armed gauntlets change , Their needles to lances , and their gentle hearts To fierce and bloody inclination .
LEWIS : There end thy brave , and turn thy face in peace ; We grant thou canst outscold us : fare thee well ; We hold our time too precious to be spent With such a brabbler .
CARDINAL PANDULPH : Give me leave to speak .
BASTARD : No , I will speak .
LEWIS : We will attend to neither . Strike up the drums ; and let the tongue of war Plead for our interest and our being here .
BASTARD : Indeed your drums , being beaten , will cry out ; And so shall you , being beaten : do but start An echo with the clamour of thy drum , And even at hand a drum is ready braced That shall reverberate all as loud as thine ; Sound but another , and another shall As loud as thine rattle the welkin 's ear And mock the deep-mouth 'd thunder : for at hand , Not trusting to this halting legate here , Whom he hath used rather for sport than need Is warlike John ; and in his forehead sits A bare-ribb 'd death , whose office is this day To feast upon whole thousands of the French .
LEWIS : Strike up our drums , to find this danger out .
BASTARD : And thou shalt find it , Dauphin , do not doubt . Alarums . Enter KING JOHN and HUBERT
KING JOHN : How goes the day with us ? O , tell me , Hubert .
HUBERT : Badly , I fear . How fares your majesty ?
KING JOHN : This fever , that hath troubled me so long , Lies heavy on me ; O , my heart is sick ! Enter a Messenger
Messenger : My lord , your valiant kinsman , Faulconbridge , Desires your majesty to leave the field And send him word by me which way you go .
KING JOHN : Tell him , toward Swinstead , to the abbey there .
Messenger : Be of good comfort ; for the great supply That was expected by the Dauphin here , Are wreck 'd three nights ago on Goodwin Sands . This news was brought to Richard but even now : The French fight coldly , and retire themselves .
KING JOHN : Ay me ! this tyrant fever burns me up , And will not let me welcome this good news . Set on toward Swinstead : to my litter straight ; Weakness possesseth me , and I am faint . Enter SALISBURY , PEMBROKE , and BIGOT
SALISBURY : I did not think the king so stored with friends .
