BASTARD : James Gurney , wilt thou give us leave awhile ?
GURNEY : Good leave , good Philip .
BASTARD : Philip ! sparrow : James , There 's toys abroad : anon I 'll tell thee more . Exit GURNEY Madam , I was not old sir Robert 's son : Sir Robert might have eat his part in me Upon Good-Friday and ne 'er broke his fast : Sir Robert could do well : marry , to confess , Could he get me ? Sir Robert could not do it : We know his handiwork : therefore , good mother , To whom am I beholding for these limbs ? Sir Robert never holp to make this leg .
LADY FAULCONBRIDGE : Hast thou conspired with thy brother too , That for thine own gain shouldst defend mine honour ? What means this scorn , thou most untoward knave ?
BASTARD : Knight , knight , good mother , Basilisco-like . What ! I am dubb 'd ! I have it on my shoulder . But , mother , I am not sir Robert 's son ; I have disclaim 'd sir Robert and my land ; Legitimation , name and all is gone : Then , good my mother , let me know my father ; Some proper man , I hope : who was it , mother ?
LADY FAULCONBRIDGE : Hast thou denied thyself a Faulconbridge ?
BASTARD : As faithfully as I deny the devil .
LADY FAULCONBRIDGE : King Richard Coeur-de-lion was thy father : By long and vehement suit I was seduced To make room for him in my husband 's bed : Heaven lay not my transgression to my charge ! Thou art the issue of my dear offence , Which was so strongly urged past my defence .
BASTARD : Now , by this light , were I to get again , Madam , I would not wish a better father . Some sins do bear their privilege on earth , And so doth yours ; your fault was not your folly : Needs must you lay your heart at his dispose , Subjected tribute to commanding love , Against whose fury and unmatched force The aweless lion could not wage the fight , Nor keep his princely heart from Richard 's hand . He that perforce robs lions of their hearts May easily win a woman 's . Ay , my mother , With all my heart I thank thee for my father ! Who lives and dares but say thou didst not well When I was got , I 'll send his soul to hell . Come , lady , I will show thee to my kin ; And they shall say , when Richard me begot , If thou hadst said him nay , it had been sin : Who says it was , he lies ; I say ' twas not . Enter AUSTRIA and forces , drums , etc. on one side : on the other KING PHILIP and his power ; LEWIS , ARTHUR , CONSTANCE and attendants
LEWIS : Before Angiers well met , brave Austria . Arthur , that great forerunner of thy blood , Richard , that robb 'd the lion of his heart And fought the holy wars in Palestine , By this brave duke came early to his grave : And for amends to his posterity , At our importance hither is he come , To spread his colours , boy , in thy behalf , And to rebuke the usurpation Of thy unnatural uncle , English John : Embrace him , love him , give him welcome hither .
ARTHUR : God shall forgive you Coeur-de-lion 's death The rather that you give his offspring life , Shadowing their right under your wings of war : I give you welcome with a powerless hand , But with a heart full of unstained love : Welcome before the gates of Angiers , duke .
LEWIS : A noble boy ! Who would not do thee right ?
