KING JOHN : Now , say , Chatillon , what would France with us ?
CHATILLON : Thus , after greeting , speaks the King of France In my behavior to the majesty , The borrow 'd majesty , of England here .
QUEEN ELINOR : A strange beginning : ' borrow 'd majesty ! '
KING JOHN : Silence , good mother ; hear the embassy .
CHATILLON : Philip of France , in right and true behalf Of thy deceased brother Geffrey 's son , Arthur Plantagenet , lays most lawful claim To this fair island and the territories , To Ireland , Poictiers , Anjou , Touraine , Maine , Desiring thee to lay aside the sword Which sways usurpingly these several titles , And put these same into young Arthur 's hand , Thy nephew and right royal sovereign .
KING JOHN : What follows if we disallow of this ?
CHATILLON : The proud control of fierce and bloody war , To enforce these rights so forcibly withheld .
KING JOHN : Here have we war for war and blood for blood , Controlment for controlment : so answer France .
CHATILLON : Then take my king 's defiance from my mouth , The farthest limit of my embassy .
KING JOHN : Bear mine to him , and so depart in peace : Be thou as lightning in the eyes of France ; For ere thou canst report I will be there , The thunder of my cannon shall be heard : So hence ! Be thou the trumpet of our wrath And sullen presage of your own decay . An honourable conduct let him have : Pembroke , look to ' t . Farewell , Chatillon .
QUEEN ELINOR : What now , my son ! have I not ever said How that ambitious Constance would not cease Till she had kindled France and all the world , Upon the right and party of her son ? This might have been prevented and made whole With very easy arguments of love , Which now the manage of two kingdoms must With fearful bloody issue arbitrate .
KING JOHN : Our strong possession and our right for us .
QUEEN ELINOR : Your strong possession much more than your right , Or else it must go wrong with you and me : So much my conscience whispers in your ear , Which none but heaven and you and I shall hear . Enter a Sheriff
ESSEX : My liege , here is the strangest controversy Come from country to be judged by you , That e 'er I heard : shall I produce the men ?
KING JOHN : Let them approach . Our abbeys and our priories shall pay This expedition 's charge . Enter ROBERT and the BASTARD What men are you ?
BASTARD : Your faithful subject I , a gentleman Born in Northamptonshire and eldest son , As I suppose , to Robert Faulconbridge , A soldier , by the honour-giving hand Of Coeur-de-lion knighted in the field .
KING JOHN : What art thou ?
ROBERT : The son and heir to that same Faulconbridge .
KING JOHN : Is that the elder , and art thou the heir ? You came not of one mother then , it seems .
BASTARD : Most certain of one mother , mighty king ; That is well known ; and , as I think , one father : But for the certain knowledge of that truth I put you o 'er to heaven and to my mother : Of that I doubt , as all men 's children may .
QUEEN ELINOR : Out on thee , rude man ! thou dost shame thy mother And wound her honour with this diffidence .
BASTARD : I , madam ? no , I have no reason for it ; That is my brother 's plea and none of mine ; The which if he can prove , a ' pops me out At least from fair five hundred pound a year : Heaven guard my mother 's honour and my land !
KING JOHN : A good blunt fellow . Why , being younger born , Doth he lay claim to thine inheritance ?
