KING EDWARD IV : But Warwick 's king is Edward 's prisoner : And , gallant Warwick , do but answer this : What is the body when the head is off ?
GLOUCESTER : Alas , that Warwick had no more forecast , But , whiles he thought to steal the single ten , The king was slily finger 'd from the deck ! You left poor Henry at the Bishop 's palace , And , ten to one , you 'll meet him in the Tower .
EDWARD : ' Tis even so ; yet you are Warwick still .
GLOUCESTER : Come , Warwick , take the time ; kneel down , kneel down : Nay , when ? strike now , or else the iron cools .
WARWICK : I had rather chop this hand off at a blow , And with the other fling it at thy face , Than bear so low a sail , to strike to thee .
KING EDWARD IV : Sail how thou canst , have wind and tide thy friend , This hand , fast wound about thy coal-black hair Shall , whiles thy head is warm and new cut off , Write in the dust this sentence with thy blood , ' Wind-changing Warwick now can change no more . ' Enter OXFORD , with drum and colours
WARWICK : O cheerful colours ! see where Oxford comes !
OXFORD : Oxford , Oxford , for Lancaster ! He and his forces enter the city
GLOUCESTER : The gates are open , let us enter too .
KING EDWARD IV : So other foes may set upon our backs . Stand we in good array ; for they no doubt Will issue out again and bid us battle : If not , the city being but of small defence , We 'll quickly rouse the traitors in the same .
WARWICK : O , welcome , Oxford ! for we want thy help . Enter MONTAGUE with drum and colours
MONTAGUE : Montague , Montague , for Lancaster ! He and his forces enter the city
GLOUCESTER : Thou and thy brother both shall buy this treason Even with the dearest blood your bodies bear .
KING EDWARD IV : The harder match 'd , the greater victory : My mind presageth happy gain and conquest . Enter SOMERSET , with drum and colours
SOMERSET : Somerset , Somerset , for Lancaster ! He and his forces enter the city
GLOUCESTER : Two of thy name , both Dukes of Somerset , Have sold their lives unto the house of York ; And thou shalt be the third if this sword hold . Enter CLARENCE , with drum and colours
WARWICK : And lo , where George of Clarence sweeps along , Of force enough to bid his brother battle ; With whom an upright zeal to right prevails More than the nature of a brother 's love ! Come , Clarence , come ; thou wilt , if Warwick call .
CLARENCE : Father of Warwick , know you what this means ? Taking his red rose out of his hat Look here , I throw my infamy at thee I will not ruinate my father 's house , Who gave his blood to lime the stones together , And set up Lancaster . Why , trow 'st thou , Warwick , That Clarence is so harsh , so blunt , unnatural , To bend the fatal instruments of war Against his brother and his lawful king ? Perhaps thou wilt object my holy oath : To keep that oath were more impiety Than Jephthah 's , when he sacrificed his daughter . I am so sorry for my trespass made That , to deserve well at my brother 's hands , I here proclaim myself thy mortal foe , With resolution , wheresoe 'er I meet thee-- As I will meet thee , if thou stir abroad-- To plague thee for thy foul misleading me . And so , proud-hearted Warwick , I defy thee , And to my brother turn my blushing cheeks . Pardon me , Edward , I will make amends : And , Richard , do not frown upon my faults , For I will henceforth be no more unconstant .
KING EDWARD IV : Now welcome more , and ten times more beloved , Than if thou never hadst deserved our hate .
GLOUCESTER : Welcome , good Clarence ; this is brotherlike .
