KING HENRY VI : And I , with grief and sorrow , to the court . Enter QUEEN MARGARET and PRINCE EDWARD
EXETER : Here comes the queen , whose looks bewray her anger : I 'll steal away .
KING HENRY VI : Exeter , so will I.
QUEEN MARGARET : Nay , go not from me ; I will follow thee .
KING HENRY VI : Be patient , gentle queen , and I will stay .
QUEEN MARGARET : Who can be patient in such extremes ? Ah , wretched man ! would I had died a maid And never seen thee , never borne thee son , Seeing thou hast proved so unnatural a father Hath he deserved to lose his birthright thus ? Hadst thou but loved him half so well as I , Or felt that pain which I did for him once , Or nourish 'd him as I did with my blood , Thou wouldst have left thy dearest heart-blood there , Rather than have that savage duke thine heir And disinherited thine only son .
PRINCE EDWARD : Father , you cannot disinherit me : If you be king , why should not I succeed ?
KING HENRY VI : Pardon me , Margaret ; pardon me , sweet son : The Earl of Warwick and the duke enforced me .
QUEEN MARGARET : Enforced thee ! art thou king , and wilt be forced ? I shame to hear thee speak . Ah , timorous wretch ! Thou hast undone thyself , thy son and me ; And given unto the house of York such head As thou shalt reign but by their sufferance . To entail him and his heirs unto the crown , What is it , but to make thy sepulchre And creep into it far before thy time ? Warwick is chancellor and the lord of Calais ; Stern Falconbridge commands the narrow seas ; The duke is made protector of the realm ; And yet shalt thou be safe ? such safety finds The trembling lamb environed with wolves . Had I been there , which am a silly woman , The soldiers should have toss 'd me on their pikes Before I would have granted to that act . But thou preferr 'st thy life before thine honour : And seeing thou dost , I here divorce myself Both from thy table , Henry , and thy bed , Until that act of parliament be repeal 'd Whereby my son is disinherited . The northern lords that have forsworn thy colours Will follow mine , if once they see them spread ; And spread they shall be , to thy foul disgrace And utter ruin of the house of York . Thus do I leave thee . Come , son , let 's away ; Our army is ready ; come , we 'll after them .
KING HENRY VI : Stay , gentle Margaret , and hear me speak .
QUEEN MARGARET : Thou hast spoke too much already : get thee gone .
KING HENRY VI : Gentle son Edward , thou wilt stay with me ?
QUEEN MARGARET : Ay , to be murder 'd by his enemies .
PRINCE EDWARD : When I return with victory from the field I 'll see your grace : till then I 'll follow her .
QUEEN MARGARET : Come , son , away ; we may not linger thus .
KING HENRY VI : Poor queen ! how love to me and to her son Hath made her break out into terms of rage ! Revenged may she be on that hateful duke , Whose haughty spirit , winged with desire , Will cost my crown , and like an empty eagle Tire on the flesh of me and of my son ! The loss of those three lords torments my heart : I 'll write unto them and entreat them fair . Come , cousin you shall be the messenger .
EXETER : And I , I hope , shall reconcile them all . Enter RICHARD , EDWARD , and MONTAGUE
RICHARD : Brother , though I be youngest , give me leave .
EDWARD : No , I can better play the orator .
MONTAGUE : But I have reasons strong and forcible . Enter YORK
YORK : Why , how now , sons and brother ! at a strife ? What is your quarrel ? how began it first ?
