WARWICK : I wonder how the king escaped our hands .
YORK : While we pursued the horsemen of the north , He slily stole away and left his men : Whereat the great Lord of Northumberland , Whose warlike ears could never brook retreat , Cheer 'd up the drooping army ; and himself , Lord Clifford and Lord Stafford , all abreast , Charged our main battle 's front , and breaking in Were by the swords of common soldiers slain .
EDWARD : Lord Stafford 's father , Duke of Buckingham , Is either slain or wounded dangerously ; I cleft his beaver with a downright blow : That this is true , father , behold his blood .
MONTAGUE : And , brother , here 's the Earl of Wiltshire 's blood , Whom I encounter 'd as the battles join 'd .
RICHARD : Speak thou for me and tell them what I did . Throwing down SOMERSET 's head
YORK : Richard hath best deserved of all my sons . But is your grace dead , my Lord of Somerset ?
NORFOLK : Such hope have all the line of John of Gaunt !
RICHARD : Thus do I hope to shake King Henry 's head .
WARWICK : And so do I. Victorious Prince of York , Before I see thee seated in that throne Which now the house of Lancaster usurps , I vow by heaven these eyes shall never close . This is the palace of the fearful king , And this the regal seat : possess it , York ; For this is thine and not King Henry 's heirs'
YORK : Assist me , then , sweet Warwick , and I will ; For hither we have broken in by force .
NORFOLK : We 'll all assist you ; he that flies shall die .
YORK : Thanks , gentle Norfolk : stay by me , my lords ; And , soldiers , stay and lodge by me this night . They go up
WARWICK : And when the king comes , offer no violence , Unless he seek to thrust you out perforce .
YORK : The queen this day here holds her parliament , But little thinks we shall be of her council : By words or blows here let us win our right .
RICHARD : Arm 'd as we are , let 's stay within this house .
WARWICK : The bloody parliament shall this be call 'd , Unless Plantagenet , Duke of York , be king , And bashful Henry deposed , whose cowardice Hath made us by-words to our enemies .
YORK : Then leave me not , my lords ; be resolute ; I mean to take possession of my right .
WARWICK : Neither the king , nor he that loves him best , The proudest he that holds up Lancaster , Dares stir a wing , if Warwick shake his bells . I 'll plant Plantagenet , root him up who dares : Resolve thee , Richard ; claim the English crown . Flourish . Enter KING HENRY VI , CLIFFORD , NORTHUMBERLAND , WESTMORELAND , EXETER , and the rest
KING HENRY VI : My lords , look where the sturdy rebel sits , Even in the chair of state : belike he means , Back 'd by the power of Warwick , that false peer , To aspire unto the crown and reign as king . Earl of Northumberland , he slew thy father . And thine , Lord Clifford ; and you both have vow 'd revenge On him , his sons , his favourites and his friends .
NORTHUMBERLAND : If I be not , heavens be revenged on me !
CLIFFORD : The hope thereof makes Clifford mourn in steel .
WESTMORELAND : What , shall we suffer this ? let 's pluck him down : My heart for anger burns ; I cannot brook it .
KING HENRY VI : Be patient , gentle Earl of Westmoreland .
CLIFFORD : Patience is for poltroons , such as he : He durst not sit there , had your father lived . My gracious lord , here in the parliament Let us assail the family of York .
NORTHUMBERLAND : Well hast thou spoken , cousin : be it so .
KING HENRY VI : Ah , know you not the city favours them , And they have troops of soldiers at their beck ?
