GLOUCESTER : The queen is valued thirty thousand strong , And Somerset , with Oxford fled to her : If she have time to breathe be well assured Her faction will be full as strong as ours .
KING EDWARD IV : We are advertised by our loving friends That they do hold their course toward Tewksbury : We , having now the best at Barnet field , Will thither straight , for willingness rids way ; And , as we march , our strength will be augmented In every county as we go along . Strike up the drum ; cry ' Courage ! ' and away . March . Enter QUEEN MARGARET , PRINCE EDWARD , SOMERSET , OXFORD , and soldiers
QUEEN MARGARET : Great lords , wise men ne 'er sit and wail their loss , But cheerly seek how to redress their harms . What though the mast be now blown overboard , The cable broke , the holding-anchor lost , And half our sailors swallow 'd in the flood ? Yet lives our pilot still . Is 't meet that he Should leave the helm and like a fearful lad With tearful eyes add water to the sea And give more strength to that which hath too much , Whiles , in his moan , the ship splits on the rock , Which industry and courage might have saved ? Ah , what a shame ! ah , what a fault were this ! Say Warwick was our anchor ; what of that ? And Montague our topmost ; what of him ? Our slaughter 'd friends the tackles ; what of these ? Why , is not Oxford here another anchor ? And Somerset another goodly mast ? The friends of France our shrouds and tacklings ? And , though unskilful , why not Ned and I For once allow 'd the skilful pilot 's charge ? We will not from the helm to sit and weep , But keep our course , though the rough wind say no , From shelves and rocks that threaten us with wreck . As good to chide the waves as speak them fair . And what is Edward but ruthless sea ? What Clarence but a quicksand of deceit ? And Richard but a ragged fatal rock ? All these the enemies to our poor bark . Say you can swim ; alas , ' tis but a while ! Tread on the sand ; why , there you quickly sink : Bestride the rock ; the tide will wash you off , Or else you famish ; that 's a threefold death . This speak I , lords , to let you understand , If case some one of you would fly from us , That there 's no hoped-for mercy with the brothers More than with ruthless waves , with sands and rocks . Why , courage then ! what cannot be avoided ' Twere childish weakness to lament or fear .
PRINCE EDWARD : Methinks a woman of this valiant spirit Should , if a coward heard her speak these words , Infuse his breast with magnanimity And make him , naked , foil a man at arms . I speak not this as doubting any here For did I but suspect a fearful man He should have leave to go away betimes , Lest in our need he might infect another And make him of like spirit to himself . If any such be here--as God forbid ! -- Let him depart before we need his help .
OXFORD : Women and children of so high a courage , And warriors faint ! why , ' twere perpetual shame . O brave young prince ! thy famous grandfather Doth live again in thee : long mayst thou live To bear his image and renew his glories !
SOMERSET : And he that will not fight for such a hope . Go home to bed , and like the owl by day , If he arise , be mock 'd and wonder 'd at .
QUEEN MARGARET : Thanks , gentle Somerset ; sweet Oxford , thanks .
PRINCE EDWARD : And take his thanks that yet hath nothing else . Enter a Messenger
Messenger : Prepare you , lords , for Edward is at hand . Ready to fight ; therefore be resolute .
OXFORD : I thought no less : it is his policy To haste thus fast , to find us unprovided .
