EXETER : The doubt is that he will seduce the rest .
KING HENRY VI : That 's not my fear ; my meed hath got me fame : I have not stopp 'd mine ears to their demands , Nor posted off their suits with slow delays ; My pity hath been balm to heal their wounds , My mildness hath allay 'd their swelling griefs , My mercy dried their water-flowing tears ; I have not been desirous of their wealth , Nor much oppress 'd them with great subsidies . Nor forward of revenge , though they much err 'd : Then why should they love Edward more than me ? No , Exeter , these graces challenge grace : And when the lion fawns upon the lamb , The lamb will never cease to follow him . Shout within . ' A Lancaster ! A Lancaster ! '
EXETER : Hark , hark , my lord ! what shouts are these ? Enter KING EDWARD IV , GLOUCESTER , and soldiers
KING EDWARD IV : Seize on the shame-faced Henry , bear him hence ; And once again proclaim us King of England . You are the fount that makes small brooks to flow : Now stops thy spring ; my sea sha $ l suck them dry , And swell so much the higher by their ebb . Hence with him to the Tower ; let him not speak . And , lords , towards Coventry bend we our course Where peremptory Warwick now remains : The sun shines hot ; and , if we use delay , Cold biting winter mars our hoped-for hay .
GLOUCESTER : Away betimes , before his forces join , And take the great-grown traitor unawares : Brave warriors , march amain towards Coventry . Enter WARWICK , the Mayor of Coventry , two Messengers , and others upon the walls
WARWICK : Where is the post that came from valiant Oxford ? How far hence is thy lord , mine honest fellow ?
First Messenger : By this at Dunsmore , marching hitherward .
WARWICK : How far off is our brother Montague ? Where is the post that came from Montague ?
Second Messenger : By this at Daintry , with a puissant troop . Enter SIR JOHN SOMERVILLE
WARWICK : Say , Somerville , what says my loving son ? And , by thy guess , how nigh is Clarence now ?
SOMERSET : At Southam I did leave him with his forces , And do expect him here some two hours hence . Drum heard
WARWICK : Then Clarence is at hand , I hear his drum .
SOMERSET : It is not his , my lord ; here Southam lies : The drum your honour hears marcheth from Warwick .
WARWICK : Who should that be ? belike , unlook 'd-for friends .
SOMERSET : They are at hand , and you shall quickly know . March : flourish . Enter KING EDWARD IV , GLOUCESTER , and soldiers
KING EDWARD IV : Go , trumpet , to the walls , and sound a parle .
GLOUCESTER : See how the surly Warwick mans the wall !
WARWICK : O unbid spite ! is sportful Edward come ? Where slept our scouts , or how are they seduced , That we could hear no news of his repair ?
KING EDWARD IV : Now , Warwick , wilt thou ope the city gates , Speak gentle words and humbly bend thy knee , Call Edward king and at his hands beg mercy ? And he shall pardon thee these outrages .
WARWICK : Nay , rather , wilt thou draw thy forces hence , Confess who set thee up and pluck 'd thee own , Call Warwick patron and be penitent ? And thou shalt still remain the Duke of York .
GLOUCESTER : I thought , at least , he would have said the king ; Or did he make the jest against his will ?
WARWICK : Is not a dukedom , sir , a goodly gift ?
GLOUCESTER : Ay , by my faith , for a poor earl to give : I 'll do thee service for so good a gift .
WARWICK : ' Twas I that gave the kingdom to thy brother .
KING EDWARD IV : Why then ' tis mine , if but by Warwick 's gift .
