KING EDWARD IV : Nay , stay , Sir John , awhi le , and we 'll debate By what safe means the crown may be recover 'd .
MONTAGUE : What talk you of debating ? in few words , If you 'll not here proclaim yourself our king , I 'll leave you to your fortune and be gone To keep them back that come to succor you : Why shall we fight , if you pretend no title ?
GLOUCESTER : Why , brother , wherefore stand you on nice points ?
KING EDWARD IV : When we grow stronger , then we 'll make our claim : Till then , ' tis wisdom to conceal our meaning .
HASTINGS : Away with scrupulous wit ! now arms must rule .
GLOUCESTER : And fearless minds climb soonest unto crowns . Brother , we will proclaim you out of hand : The bruit thereof will bring you many friends .
KING EDWARD IV : Then be it as you will ; for ' tis my right , And Henry but usurps the diadem .
MONTAGUE : Ay , now my sovereign speaketh like himself ; And now will I be Edward 's champion .
HASTINGS : Sound trumpet ; Edward shall be here proclaim 'd : Come , fellow-soldier , make thou proclamation . Flourish
Soldier : Edward the Fourth , by the grace of God , king of England and France , and lord of Ireland , & c .
MONTAGUE : And whosoe 'er gainsays King Edward 's right , By this I challenge him to single fight . Throws down his gauntlet
All : Long live Edward the Fourth !
KING EDWARD IV : Thanks , brave Montgomery ; and thanks unto you all : If fortune serve me , I 'll requite this kindness . Now , for this night , let 's harbour here in York ; And when the morning sun shall raise his car Above the border of this horizon , We 'll forward towards Warwick and his mates ; For well I wot that Henry is no soldier . Ah , froward Clarence ! how evil it beseems thee To flatter Henry and forsake thy brother ! Yet , as we may , we 'll meet both thee and Warwick . Come on , brave soldiers : doubt not of the day , And , that once gotten , doubt not of large pay . Flourish . Enter KING HENRY VI , WARWICK , MONTAGUE , CLARENCE , EXETER , and OXFORD
WARWICK : What counsel , lords ? Edward from Belgia , With hasty Germans and blunt Hollanders , Hath pass 'd in safety through the narrow seas , And with his troops doth march amain to London ; And many giddy people flock to him .
KING HENRY VI : Let 's levy men , and beat him back again .
CLARENCE : A little fire is quickly trodden out ; Which , being suffer 'd , rivers cannot quench .
WARWICK : In Warwickshire I have true-hearted friends , Not mutinous in peace , yet bold in war ; Those will I muster up : and thou , son Clarence , Shalt stir up in Suffolk , Norfolk , and in Kent , The knights and gentlemen to come with thee : Thou , brother Montague , in Buckingham , Northampton and in Leicestershire , shalt find Men well inclined to hear what thou command 'st : And thou , brave Oxford , wondrous well beloved , In Oxfordshire shalt muster up thy friends . My sovereign , with the loving citizens , Like to his island girt in with the ocean , Or modest Dian circled with her nymphs , Shall rest in London till we come to him . Fair lords , take leave and stand not to reply . Farewell , my sovereign .
KING HENRY VI : Farewell , my Hector , and my Troy 's true hope .
CLARENCE : In sign of truth , I kiss your highness ' hand .
KING HENRY VI : Well-minded Clarence , be thou fortunate !
MONTAGUE : Comfort , my lord ; and so I take my leave .
OXFORD : And thus I seal my truth , and bid adieu .
KING HENRY VI : Sweet Oxford , and my loving Montague , And all at once , once more a happy farewell .
WARWICK : Farewell , sweet lords : let 's meet at Coventry .
