CLIFFORD : That is my office , for my father 's sake .
QUEEN MARGARET : Nay , stay ; lets hear the orisons he makes .
YORK : She-wolf of France , but worse than wolves of France , Whose tongue more poisons than the adder 's tooth ! How ill-beseeming is it in thy sex To triumph , like an Amazonian trull , Upon their woes whom fortune captivates ! But that thy face is , vizard-like , unchanging , Made impudent with use of evil deeds , I would assay , proud queen , to make thee blush . To tell thee whence thou camest , of whom derived , Were shame enough to shame thee , wert thou not shameless . Thy father bears the type of King of Naples , Of both the Sicils and Jerusalem , Yet not so wealthy as an English yeoman . Hath that poor monarch taught thee to insult ? It needs not , nor it boots thee not , proud queen , Unless the adage must be verified , That beggars mounted run their horse to death . ' Tis beauty that doth oft make women proud ; But , God he knows , thy share thereof is small : ' Tis virtue that doth make them most admired ; The contrary doth make thee wonder 'd at : ' Tis government that makes them seem divine ; The want thereof makes thee abominable : Thou art as opposite to every good As the Antipodes are unto us , Or as the south to the septentrion . O tiger 's heart wrapt in a woman 's hide ! How couldst thou drain the life-blood of the child , To bid the father wipe his eyes withal , And yet be seen to bear a woman 's face ? Women are soft , mild , pitiful and flexible ; Thou stern , obdurate , flinty , rough , remorseless . Bids 't thou me rage ? why , now thou hast thy wish : Wouldst have me weep ? why , now thou hast thy will : For raging wind blows up incessant showers , And when the rage allays , the rain begins . These tears are my sweet Rutland 's obsequies : And every drop cries vengeance for his death , ' Gainst thee , fell Clifford , and thee , false Frenchwoman .
NORTHUMBERLAND : Beshrew me , but his passion moves me so That hardly can I cheque my eyes from tears .
YORK : That face of his the hungry cannibals Would not have touch 'd , would not have stain 'd with blood : But you are more inhuman , more inexorable , O , ten times more , than tigers of Hyrcania . See , ruthless queen , a hapless father 's tears : This cloth thou dip 'dst in blood of my sweet boy , And I with tears do wash the blood away . Keep thou the napkin , and go boast of this : And if thou tell 'st the heavy story right , Upon my soul , the hearers will shed tears ; Yea even my foes will shed fast-falling tears , And say ' Alas , it was a piteous deed ! ' There , take the crown , and , with the crown , my curse ; And in thy need such comfort come to thee As now I reap at thy too cruel hand ! Hard-hearted Clifford , take me from the world : My soul to heaven , my blood upon your heads !
NORTHUMBERLAND : Had he been slaughter-man to all my kin , I should not for my life but weep with him . To see how inly sorrow gripes his soul .
QUEEN MARGARET : What , weeping-ripe , my Lord Northumberland ? Think but upon the wrong he did us all , And that will quickly dry thy melting tears .
CLIFFORD : Here 's for my oath , here 's for my father 's death . Stabbing him
QUEEN MARGARET : And here 's to right our gentle-hearted king . Stabbing him
YORK : Open Thy gate of mercy , gracious God ! My soul flies through these wounds to seek out Thee . Dies
QUEEN MARGARET : Off with his head , and set it on York gates ; So York may overlook the town of York . A march . Enter EDWARD , RICHARD , and their power
