WARWICK : I think his understanding is bereft . Speak , Clifford , dost thou know who speaks to thee ? Dark cloudy death o 'ershades his beams of life , And he nor sees nor hears us what we say .
RICHARD : O , would he did ! and so perhaps he doth : ' Tis but his policy to counterfeit , Because he would avoid such bitter taunts Which in the time of death he gave our father .
GEORGE : If so thou think 'st , vex him with eager words .
RICHARD : Clifford , ask mercy and obtain no grace .
EDWARD : Clifford , repent in bootless penitence .
WARWICK : Clifford , devise excuses for thy faults .
GEORGE : While we devise fell tortures for thy faults .
RICHARD : Thou didst love York , and I am son to York .
EDWARD : Thou pitied 'st Rutland ; I will pity thee .
GEORGE : Where 's Captain Margaret , to fence you now ?
WARWICK : They mock thee , Clifford : swear as thou wast wont .
RICHARD : What , not an oath ? nay , then the world goes hard When Clifford cannot spare his friends an oath . I know by that he 's dead ; and , by my soul , If this right hand would buy two hour 's life , That I in all despite might rail at him , This hand should chop it off , and with the issuing blood Stifle the villain whose unstanched thirst York and young Rutland could not satisfy .
WARWICK : Ay , but he 's dead : off with the traitor 's head , And rear it in the place your father 's stands . And now to London with triumphant march , There to be crowned England 's royal king : From whence shall Warwick cut the sea to France , And ask the Lady Bona for thy queen : So shalt thou sinew both these lands together ; And , having France thy friend , thou shalt not dread The scatter 'd foe that hopes to rise again ; For though they cannot greatly sting to hurt , Yet look to have them buzz to offend thine ears . First will I see the coronation ; And then to Brittany I 'll cross the sea , To effect this marriage , so it please my lord .
EDWARD : Even as thou wilt , sweet Warwick , let it be ; For in thy shoulder do I build my seat , And never will I undertake the thing Wherein thy counsel and consent is wanting . Richard , I will create thee Duke of Gloucester , And George , of Clarence : Warwick , as ourself , Shall do and undo as him pleaseth best .
RICHARD : Let me be Duke of Clarence , George of Gloucester ; For Gloucester 's dukedom is too ominous .
WARWICK : Tut , that 's a foolish observation : Richard , be Duke of Gloucester . Now to London , To see these honours in possession . Enter two Keepers , with cross-bows in their hands
First Keeper : Under this thick-grown brake we 'll shroud ourselves ; For through this laund anon the deer will come ; And in this covert will we make our stand , Culling the principal of all the deer .
Second Keeper : I 'll stay above the hill , so both may shoot .
First Keeper : That cannot be ; the noise of thy cross-bow Will scare the herd , and so my shoot is lost . Here stand we both , and aim we at the best : And , for the time shall not seem tedious , I 'll tell thee what befell me on a day In this self-place where now we mean to stand .
Second Keeper : Here comes a man ; let 's stay till he be past . Enter KING HENRY VI , disguised , with a prayerbook
