GLOUCESTER : Clarence , excuse me to the king my brother ; I 'll hence to London on a serious matter : Ere ye come there , be sure to hear some news .
CLARENCE : What ? what ?
GLOUCESTER : The Tower , the Tower . Exit
QUEEN MARGARET : O Ned , sweet Ned ! speak to thy mother , boy ! Canst thou not speak ? O traitors ! murderers ! They that stabb 'd Caesar shed no blood at all , Did not offend , nor were not worthy blame , If this foul deed were by to equal it : He was a man ; this , in respect , a child : And men ne 'er spend their fury on a child . What 's worse than murderer , that I may name it ? No , no , my heart will burst , and if I speak : And I will speak , that so my heart may burst . Butchers and villains ! bloody cannibals ! How sweet a plant have you untimely cropp 'd ! You have no children , butchers ! if you had , The thought of them would have stirr 'd up remorse : But if you ever chance to have a child , Look in his youth to have him so cut off As , deathmen , you have rid this sweet young prince !
KING EDWARD IV : Away with her ; go , bear her hence perforce .
QUEEN MARGARET : Nay , never bear me hence , dispatch me here , Here sheathe thy sword , I 'll pardon thee my death : What , wilt thou not ? then , Clarence , do it thou .
CLARENCE : By heaven , I will not do thee so much ease .
QUEEN MARGARET : Good Clarence , do ; sweet Clarence , do thou do it .
CLARENCE : Didst thou not hear me swear I would not do it ?
QUEEN MARGARET : Ay , but thou usest to forswear thyself : ' Twas sin before , but now ' tis charity . What , wilt thou not ? Where is that devil 's butcher , Hard-favour 'd Richard ? Richard , where art thou ? Thou art not here : murder is thy alms-deed ; Petitioners for blood thou ne 'er put 'st back .
KING EDWARD IV : Away , I say ; I charge ye , bear her hence .
QUEEN MARGARET : So come to you and yours , as to this Prince ! Exit , led out forcibly
KING EDWARD IV : Where 's Richard gone ?
CLARENCE : To London , all in post ; and , as I guess , To make a bloody supper in the Tower .
KING EDWARD IV : He 's sudden , if a thing comes in his head . Now march we hence : discharge the common sort With pay and thanks , and let 's away to London And see our gentle queen how well she fares : By this , I hope , she hath a son for me . Enter KING HENRY VI and GLOUCESTER , with the Lieutenant , on the walls
GLOUCESTER : Good day , my lord . What , at your book so hard ?
KING HENRY VI : Ay , my good lord : --my lord , I should say rather ; ' Tis sin to flatter ; ' good ' was little better : ' Good Gloucester ' and ' good devil ' were alike , And both preposterous ; therefore , not ' good lord . ' 
GLOUCESTER : Sirrah , leave us to ourselves : we must confer . Exit Lieutenant
KING HENRY VI : So flies the reckless shepherd from the wolf ; So first the harmless sheep doth yield his fleece And next his throat unto the butcher 's knife . What scene of death hath Roscius now to act ?
GLOUCESTER : Suspicion always haunts the guilty mind ; The thief doth fear each bush an officer .
KING HENRY VI : The bird that hath been limed in a bush , With trembling wings misdoubteth every bush ; And I , the hapless male to one sweet bird , Have now the fatal object in my eye Where my poor young was limed , was caught and kill 'd .
