WARWICK : Why , therefore Warwick came to seek you out ; And therefore comes my brother Montague . Attend me , lords . The proud insulting queen , With Clifford and the haught Northumberland , And of their feather many more proud birds , Have wrought the easy-melting king like wax . He swore consent to your succession , His oath enrolled in the parliament ; And now to London all the crew are gone , To frustrate both his oath and what beside May make against the house of Lancaster . Their power , I think , is thirty thousand strong : Now , if the help of Norfolk and myself , With all the friends that thou , brave Earl of March , Amongst the loving Welshmen canst procure , Will but amount to five and twenty thousand , Why , Via ! to London will we march amain , And once again bestride our foaming steeds , And once again cry ' Charge upon our foes ! ' But never once again turn back and fly .
RICHARD : Ay , now methinks I hear great Warwick speak : Ne 'er may he live to see a sunshine day , That cries ' Retire , ' if Warwick bid him stay .
EDWARD : Lord Warwick , on thy shoulder will I lean ; And when thou fail 'st--as God forbid the hour ! -- Must Edward fall , which peril heaven forfend !
WARWICK : No longer Earl of March , but Duke of York : The next degree is England 's royal throne ; For King of England shalt thou be proclaim 'd In every borough as we pass along ; And he that throws not up his cap for joy Shall for the fault make forfeit of his head . King Edward , valiant Richard , Montague , Stay we no longer , dreaming of renown , But sound the trumpets , and about our task .
RICHARD : Then , Clifford , were thy heart as hard as steel , As thou hast shown it flinty by thy deeds , I come to pierce it , or to give thee mine .
EDWARD : Then strike up drums : God and Saint George for us ! Enter a Messenger
WARWICK : How now ! what news ?
Messenger : The Duke of Norfolk sends you word by me , The queen is coming with a puissant host ; And craves your company for speedy counsel .
WARWICK : Why then it sorts , brave warriors , let 's away . Flourish . Enter KING HENRY VI , QUEEN MARGARET , PRINCE EDWARD , CLIFFORD , and NORTHUMBERLAND , with drum and trumpets
QUEEN MARGARET : Welcome , my lord , to this brave town of York . Yonder 's the head of that arch-enemy That sought to be encompass 'd with your crown : Doth not the object cheer your heart , my lord ?
KING HENRY VI : Ay , as the rocks cheer them that fear their wreck : To see this sight , it irks my very soul . Withhold revenge , dear God ! ' tis not my fault , Nor wittingly have I infringed my vow .
