KING EDWARD IV : Belike she minds to play the Amazon . But what said Warwick to these injuries ?
Post : He , more incensed against your majesty Than all the rest , discharged me with these words : ' Tell him from me that he hath done me wrong , And therefore I 'll uncrown him ere 't be long . ' 
KING EDWARD IV : Ha ! durst the traitor breathe out so proud words ? Well I will arm me , being thus forewarn 'd : They shall have wars and pay for their presumption . But say , is Warwick friends with Margaret ?
Post : Ay , gracious sovereign ; they are so link 'd in friendship That young Prince Edward marries Warwick 's daughter .
CLARENCE : Belike the elder ; Clarence will have the younger . Now , brother king , farewell , and sit you fast , For I will hence to Warwick 's other daughter ; That , though I want a kingdom , yet in marriage I may not prove inferior to yourself . You that love me and Warwick , follow me . Exit CLARENCE , and SOMERSET follows
GLOUCESTER : Not I : My thoughts aim at a further matter ; I Stay not for the love of Edward , but the crown .
KING EDWARD IV : Clarence and Somerset both gone to Warwick ! Yet am I arm 'd against the worst can happen ; And haste is needful in this desperate case . Pembroke and Stafford , you in our behalf Go levy men , and make prepare for war ; They are already , or quickly will be landed : Myself in person will straight follow you . But , ere I go , Hastings and Montague , Resolve my doubt . You twain , of all the rest , Are near to Warwick by blood and by alliance : Tell me if you love Warwick more than me ? If it be so , then both depart to him ; I rather wish you foes than hollow friends : But if you mind to hold your true obedience , Give me assurance with some friendly vow , That I may never have you in suspect .
MONTAGUE : So God help Montague as he proves true !
HASTINGS : And Hastings as he favours Edward 's cause !
KING EDWARD IV : Now , brother Richard , will you stand by us ?
GLOUCESTER : Ay , in despite of all that shall withstand you .
KING EDWARD IV : Why , so ! then am I sure of victory . Now therefore let us hence ; and lose no hour , Till we meet Warwick with his foreign power . Enter WARWICK and OXFORD , with French soldiers
WARWICK : Trust me , my lord , all hitherto goes well ; The common people by numbers swarm to us . Enter CLARENCE and SOMERSET But see where Somerset and Clarence come ! Speak suddenly , my lords , are we all friends ?
CLARENCE : Fear not that , my lord .
