EDWARD : His name that valiant duke hath left with thee ; His dukedom and his chair with me is left .
RICHARD : Nay , if thou be that princely eagle 's bird , Show thy descent by gazing ' gainst the sun : For chair and dukedom , throne and kingdom say ; Either that is thine , or else thou wert not his . March . Enter WARWICK , MONTAGUE , and their army
WARWICK : How now , fair lords ! What fare ? what news abroad ?
RICHARD : Great Lord of Warwick , if we should recount Our baleful news , and at each word 's deliverance Stab poniards in our flesh till all were told , The words would add more anguish than the wounds . O valiant lord , the Duke of York is slain !
EDWARD : O Warwick , Warwick ! that Plantagenet , Which held three dearly as his soul 's redemption , Is by the stern Lord Clifford done to death .
WARWICK : Ten days ago I drown 'd these news in tears ; And now , to add more measure to your woes , I come to tell you things sith then befall 'n . After the bloody fray at Wakefield fought , Where your brave father breathed his latest gasp , Tidings , as swiftly as the posts could run , Were brought me of your loss and his depart . I , then in London keeper of the king , Muster 'd my soldiers , gather 'd flocks of friends , And very well appointed , as I thought , March 'd toward Saint Alban 's to intercept the queen , Bearing the king in my behalf along ; For by my scouts I was advertised That she was coming with a full intent To dash our late decree in parliament Touching King Henry 's oath and your succession . Short tale to make , we at Saint Alban 's met Our battles join 'd , and both sides fiercely fought : But whether ' twas the coldness of the king , Who look 'd full gently on his warlike queen , That robb 'd my soldiers of their heated spleen ; Or whether ' twas report of her success ; Or more than common fear of Clifford 's rigour , Who thunders to his captives blood and death , I cannot judge : but to conclude with truth , Their weapons like to lightning came and went ; Our soldiers ' , like the night-owl 's lazy flight , Or like an idle thresher with a flail , Fell gently down , as if they struck their friends . I cheer 'd them up with justice of our cause , With promise of high pay and great rewards : But all in vain ; they had no heart to fight , And we in them no hope to win the day ; So that we fled ; the king unto the queen ; Lord George your brother , Norfolk and myself , In haste , post-haste , are come to join with you : For in the marches here we heard you were , Making another head to fight again .
EDWARD : Where is the Duke of Norfolk , gentle Warwick ? And when came George from Burgundy to England ?
WARWICK : Some six miles off the duke is with the soldiers ; And for your brother , he was lately sent From your kind aunt , Duchess of Burgundy , With aid of soldiers to this needful war .
RICHARD : ' Twas odds , belike , when valiant Warwick fled : Oft have I heard his praises in pursuit , But ne 'er till now his scandal of retire .
WARWICK : Nor now my scandal , Richard , dost thou hear ; For thou shalt know this strong right hand of mine Can pluck the diadem from faint Henry 's head , And wring the awful sceptre from his fist , Were he as famous and as bold in war As he is famed for mildness , peace , and prayer .
