Lieutenant : Subjects may challenge nothing of their sovereigns ; But if an humble prayer may prevail , I then crave pardon of your majesty .
KING HENRY VI : For what , lieutenant ? for well using me ? Nay , be thou sure I 'll well requite thy kindness , For that it made my imprisonment a pleasure ; Ay , such a pleasure as incaged birds Conceive when after many moody thoughts At last by notes of household harmony They quite forget their loss of liberty . But , Warwick , after God , thou set 'st me free , And chiefly therefore I thank God and thee ; He was the author , thou the instrument . Therefore , that I may conquer fortune 's spite By living low , where fortune cannot hurt me , And that the people of this blessed land May not be punish 'd with my thwarting stars , Warwick , although my head still wear the crown , I here resign my government to thee , For thou art fortunate in all thy deeds .
WARWICK : Your grace hath still been famed for virtuous ; And now may seem as wise as virtuous , By spying and avoiding fortune 's malice , For few men rightly temper with the stars : Yet in this one thing let me blame your grace , For choosing me when Clarence is in place .
CLARENCE : No , Warwick , thou art worthy of the sway , To whom the heavens in thy nativity Adjudged an olive branch and laurel crown , As likely to be blest in peace and war ; And therefore I yield thee my free consent .
WARWICK : And I choose Clarence only for protector .
KING HENRY VI : Warwick and Clarence give me both your hands : Now join your hands , and with your hands your hearts , That no dissension hinder government : I make you both protectors of this land , While I myself will lead a private life And in devotion spend my latter days , To sin 's rebuke and my Creator 's praise .
WARWICK : What answers Clarence to his sovereign 's will ?
CLARENCE : That he consents , if Warwick yield consent ; For on thy fortune I repose myself .
WARWICK : Why , then , though loath , yet must I be content : We 'll yoke together , like a double shadow To Henry 's body , and supply his place ; I mean , in bearing weight of government , While he enjoys the honour and his ease . And , Clarence , now then it is more than needful Forthwith that Edward be pronounced a traitor , And all his lands and goods be confiscate .
CLARENCE : What else ? and that succession be determined .
WARWICK : Ay , therein Clarence shall not want his part .
KING HENRY VI : But , with the first of all your chief affairs , Let me entreat , for I command no more , That Margaret your queen and my son Edward Be sent for , to return from France with speed ; For , till I see them here , by doubtful fear My joy of liberty is half eclipsed .
CLARENCE : It shall be done , my sovereign , with all speed .
KING HENRY VI : My Lord of Somerset , what youth is that , Of whom you seem to have so tender care ?
SOMERSET : My liege , it is young Henry , earl of Richmond .
KING HENRY VI : Come hither , England 's hope . Lays his hand on his head If secret powers Suggest but truth to my divining thoughts , This pretty lad will prove our country 's bliss . His looks are full of peaceful majesty , His head by nature framed to wear a crown , His hand to wield a sceptre , and himself Likely in time to bless a regal throne . Make much of him , my lords , for this is he Must help you more than you are hurt by me . Enter a Post
WARWICK : What news , my friend ?
Post : That Edward is escaped from your brother , And fled , as he hears since , to Burgundy .
WARWICK : Unsavoury news ! but how made he escape ?
