KING HENRY VI : Full well hath Clifford play 'd the orator , Inferring arguments of mighty force . But , Clifford , tell me , didst thou never hear That things ill-got had ever bad success ? And happy always was it for that son Whose father for his hoarding went to hell ? I 'll leave my son my virtuous deeds behind ; And would my father had left me no more ! For all the rest is held at such a rate As brings a thousand-fold more care to keep Than in possession and jot of pleasure . Ah , cousin York ! would thy best friends did know How it doth grieve me that thy head is here !
QUEEN MARGARET : My lord , cheer up your spirits : our foes are nigh , And this soft courage makes your followers faint . You promised knighthood to our forward son : Unsheathe your sword , and dub him presently . Edward , kneel down .
KING HENRY VI : Edward Plantagenet , arise a knight ; And learn this lesson , draw thy sword in right .
PRINCE : My gracious father , by your kingly leave , I 'll draw it as apparent to the crown , And in that quarrel use it to the death .
CLIFFORD : Why , that is spoken like a toward prince . Enter a Messenger
Messenger : Royal commanders , be in readiness : For with a band of thirty thousand men Comes Warwick , backing of the Duke of York ; And in the towns , as they do march along , Proclaims him king , and many fly to him : Darraign your battle , for they are at hand .
CLIFFORD : I would your highness would depart the field : The queen hath best success when you are absent .
QUEEN MARGARET : Ay , good my lord , and leave us to our fortune .
KING HENRY VI : Why , that 's my fortune too ; therefore I 'll stay .
NORTHUMBERLAND : Be it with resolution then to fight .
PRINCE EDWARD : My royal father , cheer these noble lords And hearten those that fight in your defence : Unsheathe your sword , good father ; cry ' Saint George ! ' March . Enter EDWARD , GEORGE , RICHARD , WARWICK , NORFOLK , MONTAGUE , and Soldiers
EDWARD : Now , perjured Henry ! wilt thou kneel for grace , And set thy diadem upon my head ; Or bide the mortal fortune of the field ?
QUEEN MARGARET : Go , rate thy minions , proud insulting boy ! Becomes it thee to be thus bold in terms Before thy sovereign and thy lawful king ?
EDWARD : I am his king , and he should bow his knee ; I was adopted heir by his consent : Since when , his oath is broke ; for , as I hear , You , that are king , though he do wear the crown , Have caused him , by new act of parliament , To blot out me , and put his own son in .
CLIFFORD : And reason too : Who should succeed the father but the son ?
RICHARD : Are you there , butcher ? O , I cannot speak !
CLIFFORD : Ay , crook-back , here I stand to answer thee , Or any he the proudest of thy sort .
RICHARD : ' Twas you that kill 'd young Rutland , was it not ?
CLIFFORD : Ay , and old York , and yet not satisfied .
RICHARD : For God 's sake , lords , give signal to the fight .
WARWICK : What say 'st thou , Henry , wilt thou yield the crown ?
QUEEN MARGARET : Why , how now , long-tongued Warwick ! dare you speak ? When you and I met at Saint Alban 's last , Your legs did better service than your hands .
WARWICK : Then ' twas my turn to fly , and now ' tis thine .
CLIFFORD : You said so much before , and yet you fled .
WARWICK : ' Twas not your valour , Clifford , drove me thence .
NORTHUMBERLAND : No , nor your manhood that durst make you stay .
