QUEEN MARGARET : Peace , impudent and shameless Warwick , peace , Proud setter up and puller down of kings ! I will not hence , till , with my talk and tears , Both full of truth , I make King Lewis behold Thy sly conveyance and thy lord 's false love ; For both of you are birds of selfsame feather . Post blows a horn within
KING LEWIS XI : Warwick , this is some post to us or thee . Enter a Post
Post : My lord ambassador , these letters are for you , Sent from your brother , Marquess Montague : To KING LEWIS XI These from our king unto your majesty : To QUEEN MARGARET And , madam , these for you ; from whom I know not . They all read their letters
OXFORD : I like it well that our fair queen and mistress Smiles at her news , while Warwick frowns at his .
PRINCE EDWARD : Nay , mark how Lewis stamps , as he were nettled : I hope all 's for the best .
KING LEWIS XI : Warwick , what are thy news ? and yours , fair queen ?
QUEEN MARGARET : Mine , such as fill my heart with unhoped joys .
WARWICK : Mine , full of sorrow and heart 's discontent .
KING LEWIS XI : What ! has your king married the Lady Grey ! And now , to soothe your forgery and his , Sends me a paper to persuade me patience ? Is this the alliance that he seeks with France ? Dare he presume to scorn us in this manner ?
QUEEN MARGARET : I told your majesty as much before : This proveth Edward 's love and Warwick 's honesty .
WARWICK : King Lewis , I here protest , in sight of heaven , And by the hope I have of heavenly bliss , That I am clear from this misdeed of Edward 's , No more my king , for he dishonours me , But most himself , if he could see his shame . Did I forget that by the house of York My father came untimely to his death ? Did I let pass the abuse done to my niece ? Did I impale him with the regal crown ? Did I put Henry from his native right ? And am I guerdon 'd at the last with shame ? Shame on himself ! for my desert is honour : And to repair my honour lost for him , I here renounce him and return to Henry . My noble queen , let former grudges pass , And henceforth I am thy true servitor : I will revenge his wrong to Lady Bona , And replant Henry in his former state .
QUEEN MARGARET : Warwick , these words have turn 'd my hate to love ; And I forgive and quite forget old faults , And joy that thou becomest King Henry 's friend .
WARWICK : So much his friend , ay , his unfeigned friend , That , if King Lewis vouchsafe to furnish us With some few bands of chosen soldiers , I 'll undertake to land them on our coast And force the tyrant from his seat by war . ' Tis not his new-made bride shall succor him : And as for Clarence , as my letters tell me , He 's very likely now to fall from him , For matching more for wanton lust than honour , Or than for strength and safety of our country .
BONA : Dear brother , how shall Bona be revenged But by thy help to this distressed queen ?
QUEEN MARGARET : Renowned prince , how shall poor Henry live , Unless thou rescue him from foul despair ?
BONA : My quarrel and this English queen 's are one .
WARWICK : And mine , fair lady Bona , joins with yours .
KING LEWIS XI : And mine with hers , and thine , and Margaret 's . Therefore at last I firmly am resolved You shall have aid .
QUEEN MARGARET : Let me give humble thanks for all at once .
