First Keeper : Ay , here 's a deer whose skin 's a keeper 's fee : This is the quondam king ; let 's seize upon him .
KING HENRY VI : Let me embrace thee , sour adversity , For wise men say it is the wisest course .
Second Keeper : Why linger we ? let us lay hands upon him .
First Keeper : Forbear awhile ; we 'll hear a little more .
KING HENRY VI : My queen and son are gone to France for aid ; And , as I hear , the great commanding Warwick Is thither gone , to crave the French king 's sister To wife for Edward : if this news be true , Poor queen and son , your labour is but lost ; For Warwick is a subtle orator , And Lewis a prince soon won with moving words . By this account then Margaret may win him ; For she 's a woman to be pitied much : Her sighs will make a battery in his breast ; Her tears will pierce into a marble heart ; The tiger will be mild whiles she doth mourn ; And Nero will be tainted with remorse , To hear and see her plaints , her brinish tears . Ay , but she 's come to beg , Warwick to give ; She , on his left side , craving aid for Henry , He , on his right , asking a wife for Edward . She weeps , and says her Henry is deposed ; He smiles , and says his Edward is install 'd ; That she , poor wretch , for grief can speak no more ; Whiles Warwick tells his title , smooths the wrong , Inferreth arguments of mighty strength , And in conclusion wins the king from her , With promise of his sister , and what else , To strengthen and support King Edward 's place . O Margaret , thus ' twill be ; and thou , poor soul , Art then forsaken , as thou went 'st forlorn !
Second Keeper : Say , what art thou that talk 'st of kings and queens ?
KING HENRY VI : More than I seem , and less than I was born to : A man at least , for less I should not be ; And men may talk of kings , and why not I ?
Second Keeper : Ay , but thou talk 'st as if thou wert a king .
KING HENRY VI : Why , so I am , in mind ; and that 's enough .
Second Keeper : But , if thou be a king , where is thy crown ?
KING HENRY VI : My crown is in my heart , not on my head ; Not decked with diamonds and Indian stones , Nor to be seen : my crown is called content : A crown it is that seldom kings enjoy .
Second Keeper : Well , if you be a king crown 'd with content , Your crown content and you must be contented To go along with us ; for as we think , You are the king King Edward hath deposed ; And we his subjects sworn in all allegiance Will apprehend you as his enemy .
KING HENRY VI : But did you never swear , and break an oath ?
Second Keeper : No , never such an oath ; nor will not now .
KING HENRY VI : Where did you dwell when I was King of England ?
Second Keeper : Here in this country , where we now remain .
KING HENRY VI : I was anointed king at nine months old ; My father and my grandfather were kings , And you were sworn true subjects unto me : And tell me , then , have you not broke your oaths ?
First Keeper : No ; For we were subjects but while you were king .
