KING LEWIS XI : Fair Queen of England , worthy Margaret , Sit down with us : it ill befits thy state And birth , that thou shouldst stand while Lewis doth sit .
QUEEN MARGARET : No , mighty King of France : now Margaret Must strike her sail and learn awhile to serve Where kings command . I was , I must confess , Great Albion 's queen in former golden days : But now mischance hath trod my title down , And with dishonour laid me on the ground ; Where I must take like seat unto my fortune , And to my humble seat conform myself .
KING LEWIS XI : Why , say , fair queen , whence springs this deep despair ?
QUEEN MARGARET : From such a cause as fills mine eyes with tears And stops my tongue , while heart is drown 'd in cares .
KING LEWIS XI : Whate 'er it be , be thou still like thyself , And sit thee by our side : Seats her by him Yield not thy neck To fortune 's yoke , but let thy dauntless mind Still ride in triumph over all mischance . Be plain , Queen Margaret , and tell thy grief ; It shall be eased , if France can yield relief .
QUEEN MARGARET : Those gracious words revive my drooping thoughts And give my tongue-tied sorrows leave to speak . Now , therefore , be it known to noble Lewis , That Henry , sole possessor of my love , Is of a king become a banish 'd man , And forced to live in Scotland a forlorn ; While proud ambitious Edward Duke of York Usurps the regal title and the seat Of England 's true-anointed lawful king . This is the cause that I , poor Margaret , With this my son , Prince Edward , Henry 's heir , Am come to crave thy just and lawful aid ; And if thou fail us , all our hope is done : Scotland hath will to help , but cannot help ; Our people and our peers are both misled , Our treasures seized , our soldiers put to flight , And , as thou seest , ourselves in heavy plight .
KING LEWIS XI : Renowned queen , with patience calm the storm , While we bethink a means to break it off .
QUEEN MARGARET : The more we stay , the stronger grows our foe .
KING LEWIS XI : The more I stay , the more I 'll succor thee .
QUEEN MARGARET : O , but impatience waiteth on true sorrow . And see where comes the breeder of my sorrow ! Enter WARWICK
KING LEWIS XI : What 's he approacheth boldly to our presence ?
QUEEN MARGARET : Our Earl of Warwick , Edward 's greatest friend .
KING LEWIS XI : Welcome , brave Warwick ! What brings thee to France ? He descends . She ariseth
QUEEN MARGARET : Ay , now begins a second storm to rise ; For this is he that moves both wind and tide .
WARWICK : From worthy Edward , King of Albion , My lord and sovereign , and thy vowed friend , I come , in kindness and unfeigned love , First , to do greetings to thy royal person ; And then to crave a league of amity ; And lastly , to confirm that amity With a nuptial knot , if thou vouchsafe to grant That virtuous Lady Bona , thy fair sister , To England 's king in lawful marriage .
QUEEN MARGARET : If that go forward , Henry 's hope is done .
WARWICK : And , gracious madam , in our king 's behalf , I am commanded , with your leave and favour , Humbly to kiss your hand , and with my tongue To tell the passion of my sovereign 's heart ; Where fame , late entering at his heedful ears , Hath placed thy beauty 's image and thy virtue .
