WARWICK : My brother was too careless of his charge . But let us hence , my sovereign , to provide A salve for any sore that may betide .
SOMERSET : My lord , I like not of this flight of Edward 's ; For doubtless Burgundy will yield him help , And we shall have more wars before ' t be long . As Henry 's late presaging prophecy Did glad my heart with hope of this young Richmond , So doth my heart misgive me , in these conflicts What may befall him , to his harm and ours : Therefore , Lord Oxford , to prevent the worst , Forthwith we 'll send him hence to Brittany , Till storms be past of civil enmity .
OXFORD : Ay , for if Edward repossess the crown , ' Tis like that Richmond with the rest shall down .
SOMERSET : It shall be so ; he shall to Brittany . Come , therefore , let 's about it speedily . Flourish . Enter KING EDWARD IV , GLOUCESTER , HASTINGS , and Soldiers
KING EDWARD IV : Now , brother Richard , Lord Hastings , and the rest , Yet thus far fortune maketh us amends , And says that once more I shall interchange My waned state for Henry 's regal crown . Well have we pass 'd and now repass 'd the seas And brought desired help from Burgundy : What then remains , we being thus arrived From Ravenspurgh haven before the gates of York , But that we enter , as into our dukedom ?
GLOUCESTER : The gates made fast ! Brother , I like not this ; For many men that stumble at the threshold Are well foretold that danger lurks within .
KING EDWARD IV : Tush , man , abodements must not now affright us : By fair or foul means we must enter in , For hither will our friends repair to us .
HASTINGS : My liege , I 'll knock once more to summon them . Enter , on the walls , the Mayor of York , and his Brethren
Mayor : My lords , we were forewarned of your coming , And shut the gates for safety of ourselves ; For now we owe allegiance unto Henry .
KING EDWARD IV : But , master mayor , if Henry be your king , Yet Edward at the least is Duke of York .
Mayor : True , my good lord ; I know you for no less .
KING EDWARD IV : Why , and I challenge nothing but my dukedom , As being well content with that alone .
GLOUCESTER : But when the fox hath once got in his nose , He 'll soon find means to make the body follow .
HASTINGS : Why , master mayor , why stand you in a doubt ? Open the gates ; we are King Henry 's friends .
Mayor : Ay , say you so ? the gates shall then be open 'd . They descend
GLOUCESTER : A wise stout captain , and soon persuaded !
HASTINGS : The good old man would fain that all were well , So ' twere not ' long of him ; but being enter 'd , I doubt not , I , but we shall soon persuade Both him and all his brothers unto reason . Enter the Mayor and two Aldermen , below
KING EDWARD IV : So , master mayor : these gates must not be shut But in the night or in the time of war . What ! fear not , man , but yield me up the keys ; Takes his keys For Edward will defend the town and thee , And all those friends that deign to follow me . March . Enter MONTGOMERY , with drum and soldiers
GLOUCESTER : Brother , this is Sir John Montgomery , Our trusty friend , unless I be deceived .
KING EDWARD IV : Welcome , Sir John ! But why come you in arms ?
MONTAGUE : To help King Edward in his time of storm , As every loyal subject ought to do .
KING EDWARD IV : Thanks , good Montgomery ; but we now forget Our title to the crown and only claim Our dukedom till God please to send the rest .
