CLIFFORD : I slew thy father , call 'st thou him a child ?
RICHARD : Ay , like a dastard and a treacherous coward , As thou didst kill our tender brother Rutland ; But ere sunset I 'll make thee curse the deed .
KING HENRY VI : Have done with words , my lords , and hear me speak .
QUEEN MARGARET : Defy them then , or else hold close thy lips .
KING HENRY VI : I prithee , give no limits to my tongue : I am a king , and privileged to speak .
CLIFFORD : My liege , the wound that bred this meeting here Cannot be cured by words ; therefore be still .
RICHARD : Then , executioner , unsheathe thy sword : By him that made us all , I am resolved that Clifford 's manhood lies upon his tongue .
EDWARD : Say , Henry , shall I have my right , or no ? A thousand men have broke their fasts to-day , That ne 'er shall dine unless thou yield the crown .
WARWICK : If thou deny , their blood upon thy head ; For York in justice puts his armour on .
PRINCE EDWARD : If that be right which Warwick says is right , There is no wrong , but every thing is right .
RICHARD : Whoever got thee , there thy mother stands ; For , well I wot , thou hast thy mother 's tongue .
QUEEN MARGARET : But thou art neither like thy sire nor dam ; But like a foul mis-shapen stigmatic , Mark 'd by the destinies to be avoided , As venom toads , or lizards ' dreadful stings .
RICHARD : Iron of Naples hid with English gilt , Whose father bears the title of a king , -- As if a channel should be call 'd the sea , -- Shamest thou not , knowing whence thou art extraught , To let thy tongue detect thy base-born heart ?
EDWARD : A wisp of straw were worth a thousand crowns , To make this shameless callet know herself . Helen of Greece was fairer far than thou , Although thy husband may be Menelaus ; And ne 'er was Agamemnon 's brother wrong 'd By that false woman , as this king by thee . His father revell 'd in the heart of France , And tamed the king , and made the dauphin stoop ; And had he match 'd according to his state , He might have kept that glory to this day ; But when he took a beggar to his bed , And graced thy poor sire with his bridal-day , Even then that sunshine brew 'd a shower for him , That wash 'd his father 's fortunes forth of France , And heap 'd sedition on his crown at home . For what hath broach 'd this tumult but thy pride ? Hadst thou been meek , our title still had slept ; And we , in pity of the gentle king , Had slipp 'd our claim until another age .
GEORGE : But when we saw our sunshine made thy spring , And that thy summer bred us no increase , We set the axe to thy usurping root ; And though the edge hath something hit ourselves , Yet , know thou , since we have begun to strike , We 'll never leave till we have hewn thee down , Or bathed thy growing with our heated bloods .
EDWARD : And , in this resolution , I defy thee ; Not willing any longer conference , Since thou deniest the gentle king to speak . Sound trumpets ! let our bloody colours wave ! And either victory , or else a grave .
QUEEN MARGARET : Stay , Edward .
EDWARD : No , wrangling woman , we 'll no longer stay : These words will cost ten thousand lives this day . Yorkshire . Alarum . Excursions . Enter WARWICK
WARWICK : Forspent with toil , as runners with a race , I lay me down a little while to breathe ; For strokes received , and many blows repaid , Have robb 'd my strong-knit sinews of their strength , And spite of spite needs must I rest awhile . Enter EDWARD , running
