RICHARD : I cannot joy , until I be resolved Where our right valiant father is become . I saw him in the battle range about ; And watch 'd him how he singled Clifford forth . Methought he bore him in the thickest troop As doth a lion in a herd of neat ; Or as a bear , encompass 'd round with dogs , Who having pinch 'd a few and made them cry , The rest stand all aloof , and bark at him . So fared our father with his enemies ; So fled his enemies my warlike father : Methinks , ' tis prize enough to be his son . See how the morning opes her golden gates , And takes her farewell of the glorious sun ! How well resembles it the prime of youth , Trimm 'd like a younker prancing to his love !
EDWARD : Dazzle mine eyes , or do I see three suns ?
RICHARD : Three glorious suns , each one a perfect sun ; Not separated with the racking clouds , But sever 'd in a pale clear-shining sky . See , see ! they join , embrace , and seem to kiss , As if they vow 'd some league inviolable : Now are they but one lamp , one light , one sun . In this the heaven figures some event .
EDWARD : ' Tis wondrous strange , the like yet never heard of . I think it cites us , brother , to the field , That we , the sons of brave Plantagenet , Each one already blazing by our meeds , Should notwithstanding join our lights together And over-shine the earth as this the world . Whate 'er it bodes , henceforward will I bear Upon my target three fair-shining suns .
RICHARD : Nay , bear three daughters : by your leave I speak it , You love the breeder better than the male . Enter a Messenger But what art thou , whose heavy looks foretell Some dreadful story hanging on thy tongue ?
Messenger : Ah , one that was a woful looker-on When as the noble Duke of York was slain , Your princely father and my loving lord !
EDWARD : O , speak no more , for I have heard too much .
RICHARD : Say how he died , for I will hear it all .
Messenger : Environed he was with many foes , And stood against them , as the hope of Troy Against the Greeks that would have enter 'd Troy . But Hercules himself must yield to odds ; And many strokes , though with a little axe , Hew down and fell the hardest-timber 'd oak . By many hands your father was subdued ; But only slaughter 'd by the ireful arm Of unrelenting Clifford and the queen , Who crown 'd the gracious duke in high despite , Laugh 'd in his face ; and when with grief he wept , The ruthless queen gave him to dry his cheeks A napkin steeped in the harmless blood Of sweet young Rutland , by rough Clifford slain : And after many scorns , many foul taunts , They took his head , and on the gates of York They set the same ; and there it doth remain , The saddest spectacle that e 'er I view 'd .
EDWARD : Sweet Duke of York , our prop to lean upon , Now thou art gone , we have no staff , no stay . O Clifford , boisterous Clifford ! thou hast slain The flower of Europe for his chivalry ; And treacherously hast thou vanquish 'd him , For hand to hand he would have vanquish 'd thee . Now my soul 's palace is become a prison : Ah , would she break from hence , that this my body Might in the ground be closed up in rest ! For never henceforth shall I joy again , Never , O never shall I see more joy !
