Son : Ill blows the wind that profits nobody . This man , whom hand to hand I slew in fight , May be possessed with some store of crowns ; And I , that haply take them from him now , May yet ere night yield both my life and them To some man else , as this dead man doth me . Who 's this ? O God ! it is my father 's face , Whom in this conflict I unwares have kill 'd . O heavy times , begetting such events ! From London by the king was I press 'd forth ; My father , being the Earl of Warwick 's man , Came on the part of York , press 'd by his master ; And I , who at his hands received my life , him Have by my hands of life bereaved him . Pardon me , God , I knew not what I did ! And pardon , father , for I knew not thee ! My tears shall wipe away these bloody marks ; And no more words till they have flow 'd their fill .
KING HENRY VI : O piteous spectacle ! O bloody times ! Whiles lions war and battle for their dens , Poor harmless lambs abide their enmity . Weep , wretched man , I 'll aid thee tear for tear ; And let our hearts and eyes , like civil war , Be blind with tears , and break o 'ercharged with grief . Enter a Father that has killed his son , bringing in the body
Father : Thou that so stoutly hast resisted me , Give me thy gold , if thou hast any gold : For I have bought it with an hundred blows . But let me see : is this our foeman 's face ? Ah , no , no , no , it is mine only son ! Ah , boy , if any life be left in thee , Throw up thine eye ! see , see what showers arise , Blown with the windy tempest of my heart , Upon thy words , that kill mine eye and heart ! O , pity , God , this miserable age ! What stratagems , how fell , how butcherly , Erroneous , mutinous and unnatural , This deadly quarrel daily doth beget ! O boy , thy father gave thee life too soon , And hath bereft thee of thy life too late !
KING HENRY VI : Woe above woe ! grief more than common grief ! O that my death would stay these ruthful deeds ! O pity , pity , gentle heaven , pity ! The red rose and the white are on his face , The fatal colours of our striving houses : The one his purple blood right well resembles ; The other his pale cheeks , methinks , presenteth : Wither one rose , and let the other flourish ; If you contend , a thousand lives must wither .
Son : How will my mother for a father 's death Take on with me and ne 'er be satisfied !
Father : How will my wife for slaughter of my son Shed seas of tears and ne 'er be satisfied !
KING HENRY VI : How will the country for these woful chances Misthink the king and not be satisfied !
Son : Was ever son so rued a father 's death ?
Father : Was ever father so bemoan 'd his son ?
KING HENRY VI : Was ever king so grieved for subjects ' woe ? Much is your sorrow ; mine ten times so much .
Son : I 'll bear thee hence , where I may weep my fill . Exit with the body
Father : These arms of mine shall be thy winding-sheet ; My heart , sweet boy , shall be thy sepulchre , For from my heart thine image ne 'er shall go ; My sighing breast shall be thy funeral bell ; And so obsequious will thy father be , Even for the loss of thee , having no more , As Priam was for all his valiant sons . I 'll bear thee hence ; and let them fight that will , For I have murdered where I should not kill . Exit with the body
