WARWICK : Injurious Margaret !
PRINCE EDWARD : And why not queen ?
WARWICK : Because thy father Henry did usurp ; And thou no more are prince than she is queen .
OXFORD : Then Warwick disannuls great John of Gaunt , Which did subdue the greatest part of Spain ; And , after John of Gaunt , Henry the Fourth , Whose wisdom was a mirror to the wisest ; And , after that wise prince , Henry the Fifth , Who by his prowess conquered all France : From these our Henry lineally descends .
WARWICK : Oxford , how haps it , in this smooth discourse , You told not how Henry the Sixth hath lost All that which Henry Fifth had gotten ? Methinks these peers of France should smile at that . But for the rest , you tell a pedigree Of threescore and two years ; a silly time To make prescription for a kingdom 's worth .
OXFORD : Why , Warwick , canst thou speak against thy liege , Whom thou obeyed 'st thirty and six years , And not bewray thy treason with a blush ?
WARWICK : Can Oxford , that did ever fence the right , Now buckler falsehood with a pedigree ? For shame ! leave Henry , and call Edward king .
OXFORD : Call him my king by whose injurious doom My elder brother , the Lord Aubrey Vere , Was done to death ? and more than so , my father , Even in the downfall of his mellow 'd years , When nature brought him to the door of death ? No , Warwick , no ; while life upholds this arm , This arm upholds the house of Lancaster .
WARWICK : And I the house of York .
KING LEWIS XI : Queen Margaret , Prince Edward , and Oxford , Vouchsafe , at our request , to stand aside , While I use further conference with Warwick . They stand aloof
QUEEN MARGARET : Heavens grant that Warwick 's words bewitch him not !
KING LEWIS XI : Now Warwick , tell me , even upon thy conscience , Is Edward your true king ? for I were loath To link with him that were not lawful chosen .
WARWICK : Thereon I pawn my credit and mine honour .
KING LEWIS XI : But is he gracious in the people 's eye ?
WARWICK : The more that Henry was unfortunate .
KING LEWIS XI : Then further , all dissembling set aside , Tell me for truth the measure of his love Unto our sister Bona .
WARWICK : Such it seems As may beseem a monarch like himself . Myself have often heard him say and swear That this his love was an eternal plant , Whereof the root was fix 'd in virtue 's ground , The leaves and fruit maintain 'd with beauty 's sun , Exempt from envy , but not from disdain , Unless the Lady Bona quit his pain .
KING LEWIS XI : Now , sister , let us hear your firm resolve .
BONA : Your grant , or your denial , shall be mine : To WARWICK Yet I confess that often ere this day , When I have heard your king 's desert recounted , Mine ear hath tempted judgment to desire .
KING LEWIS XI : Then , Warwick , thus : our sister shall be Edward 's ; And now forthwith shall articles be drawn Touching the jointure that your king must make , Which with her dowry shall be counterpoised . Draw near , Queen Margaret , and be a witness That Bona shall be wife to the English king .
PRINCE EDWARD : To Edward , but not to the English king .
QUEEN MARGARET : Deceitful Warwick ! it was thy device By this alliance to make void my suit : Before thy coming Lewis was Henry 's friend .
KING LEWIS XI : And still is friend to him and Margaret : But if your title to the crown be weak , As may appear by Edward 's good success , Then ' tis but reason that I be released From giving aid which late I promised . Yet shall you have all kindness at my hand That your estate requires and mine can yield .
