GLOUCESTER : And Warwick , doing what you gave in charge , Is now dishonoured by this new marriage .
KING EDWARD IV : What if both Lewis and Warwick be appeased By such invention as I can devise ?
MONTAGUE : Yet , to have join 'd with France in such alliance Would more have strengthen 'd this our commonwealth ' Gainst foreign storms than any home-bred marriage .
HASTINGS : Why , knows not Montague that of itself England is safe , if true within itself ?
MONTAGUE : But the safer when ' tis back 'd with France .
HASTINGS : ' Tis better using France than trusting France : Let us be back 'd with God and with the seas Which He hath given for fence impregnable , And with their helps only defend ourselves ; In them and in ourselves our safety lies .
CLARENCE : For this one speech Lord Hastings well deserves To have the heir of the Lord Hungerford .
KING EDWARD IV : Ay , what of that ? it was my will and grant ; And for this once my will shall stand for law .
GLOUCESTER : And yet methinks your grace hath not done well , To give the heir and daughter of Lord Scales Unto the brother of your loving bride ; She better would have fitted me or Clarence : But in your bride you bury brotherhood .
CLARENCE : Or else you would not have bestow 'd the heir Of the Lord Bonville on your new wife 's son , And leave your brothers to go speed elsewhere .
KING EDWARD IV : Alas , poor Clarence ! is it for a wife That thou art malcontent ? I will provide thee .
CLARENCE : In choosing for yourself , you show 'd your judgment , Which being shallow , you give me leave To play the broker in mine own behalf ; And to that end I shortly mind to leave you .
KING EDWARD IV : Leave me , or tarry , Edward will be king , And not be tied unto his brother 's will .
QUEEN ELIZABETH : My lords , before it pleased his majesty To raise my state to title of a queen , Do me but right , and you must all confess That I was not ignoble of descent ; And meaner than myself have had like fortune . But as this title honours me and mine , So your dislike , to whom I would be pleasing , Doth cloud my joys with danger and with sorrow .
KING EDWARD IV : My love , forbear to fawn upon their frowns : What danger or what sorrow can befall thee , So long as Edward is thy constant friend , And their true sovereign , whom they must obey ? Nay , whom they shall obey , and love thee too , Unless they seek for hatred at my hands ; Which if they do , yet will I keep thee safe , And they shall feel the vengeance of my wrath .
GLOUCESTER : I hear , yet say not much , but think the more . Enter a Post
KING EDWARD IV : Now , messenger , what letters or what news From France ?
Post : My sovereign liege , no letters ; and few words , But such as I , without your special pardon , Dare not relate .
KING EDWARD IV : Go to , we pardon thee : therefore , in brief , Tell me their words as near as thou canst guess them . What answer makes King Lewis unto our letters ?
Post : At my depart , these were his very words : ' Go tell false Edward , thy supposed king , That Lewis of France is sending over masquers To revel it with him and his new bride . ' 
KING EDWARD IV : Is Lewis so brave ? belike he thinks me Henry . But what said Lady Bona to my marriage ?
Post : These were her words , utter 'd with mad disdain : ' Tell him , in hope he 'll prove a widower shortly , I 'll wear the willow garland for his sake . ' 
KING EDWARD IV : I blame not her , she could say little less ; She had the wrong . But what said Henry 's queen ? For I have heard that she was there in place .
