PRINCE EDWARD : Fly , father , fly ! for all your friends are fled , And Warwick rages like a chafed bull : Away ! for death doth hold us in pursuit .
QUEEN MARGARET : Mount you , my lord ; towards Berwick post amain : Edward and Richard , like a brace of greyhounds Having the fearful flying hare in sight , With fiery eyes sparkling for very wrath , And bloody steel grasp 'd in their ireful hands , Are at our backs ; and therefore hence amain .
EXETER : Away ! for vengeance comes along with them : Nay , stay not to expostulate , make speed ; Or else come after : I 'll away before .
KING HENRY VI : Nay , take me with thee , good sweet Exeter : Not that I fear to stay , but love to go Whither the queen intends . Forward ; away ! A loud alarum . Enter CLIFFORD , wounded
CLIFFORD : Here burns my candle out ; ay , here it dies , Which , whiles it lasted , gave King Henry light . O Lancaster , I fear thy overthrow More than my body 's parting with my soul ! My love and fear glued many friends to thee ; And , now I fall , thy tough commixture melts . Impairing Henry , strengthening misproud York , The common people swarm like summer flies ; And whither fly the gnats but to the sun ? And who shines now but Henry 's enemies ? O Phoebus , hadst thou never given consent That Phaethon should cheque thy fiery steeds , Thy burning car never had scorch 'd the earth ! And , Henry , hadst thou sway 'd as kings should do , Or as thy father and his father did , Giving no ground unto the house of York , They never then had sprung like summer flies ; I and ten thousand in this luckless realm Had left no mourning widows for our death ; And thou this day hadst kept thy chair in peace . For what doth cherish weeds but gentle air ? And what makes robbers bold but too much lenity ? Bootless are plaints , and cureless are my wounds ; No way to fly , nor strength to hold out flight : The foe is merciless , and will not pity ; For at their hands I have deserved no pity . The air hath got into my deadly wounds , And much effuse of blood doth make me faint . Come , York and Richard , Warwick and the rest ; I stabb 'd your fathers ' bosoms , split my breast . He faints Alarum and retreat . Enter EDWARD , GEORGE , RICHARD , MONTAGUE , WARWICK , and Soldiers
EDWARD : Now breathe we , lords : good fortune bids us pause , And smooth the frowns of war with peaceful looks . Some troops pursue the bloody-minded queen , That led calm Henry , though he were a king , As doth a sail , fill 'd with a fretting gust , Command an argosy to stem the waves . But think you , lords , that Clifford fled with them ?
WARWICK : No , ' tis impossible he should escape , For , though before his face I speak the words Your brother Richard mark 'd him for the grave : And wheresoe 'er he is , he 's surely dead . CLIFFORD groans , and dies
EDWARD : Whose soul is that which takes her heavy leave ?
RICHARD : A deadly groan , like life and death 's departing .
EDWARD : See who it is : and , now the battle 's ended , If friend or foe , let him be gently used .
RICHARD : Revoke that doom of mercy , for ' tis Clifford ; Who not contented that he lopp 'd the branch In hewing Rutland when his leaves put forth , But set his murdering knife unto the root From whence that tender spray did sweetly spring , I mean our princely father , Duke of York .
WARWICK : From off the gates of York fetch down the head , Your father 's head , which Clifford placed there ; Instead whereof let this supply the room : Measure for measure must be answered .
