AARON : Away , I say ! Now , by the gods that warlike Goths adore , This petty brabble will undo us all . Why , lords , and think you not how dangerous It is to jet upon a prince 's right ? What , is Lavinia then become so loose , Or Bassianus so degenerate , That for her love such quarrels may be broach 'd Without controlment , justice , or revenge ? Young lords , beware ! and should the empress know This discord 's ground , the music would not please .
CHIRON : I care not , I , knew she and all the world : I love Lavinia more than all the world .
DEMETRIUS : Youngling , learn thou to make some meaner choice : Lavinia is thine elder brother 's hope .
AARON : Why , are ye mad ? or know ye not , in Rome How furious and impatient they be , And cannot brook competitors in love ? I tell you , lords , you do but plot your deaths By this device .
CHIRON : Aaron , a thousand deaths Would I propose to achieve her whom I love .
AARON : To achieve her ! how ?
DEMETRIUS : Why makest thou it so strange ? She is a woman , therefore may be woo 'd ; She is a woman , therefore may be won ; She is Lavinia , therefore must be loved . What , man ! more water glideth by the mill Than wots the miller of ; and easy it is Of a cut loaf to steal a shive , we know : Though Bassianus be the emperor 's brother . Better than he have worn Vulcan 's badge .
AARON : Ay , and as good as Saturninus may .
DEMETRIUS : Then why should he despair that knows to court it With words , fair looks and liberality ? What , hast not thou full often struck a doe , And borne her cleanly by the keeper 's nose ?
AARON : Why , then , it seems , some certain snatch or so Would serve your turns .
CHIRON : Ay , so the turn were served .
DEMETRIUS : Aaron , thou hast hit it .
AARON : Would you had hit it too ! Then should not we be tired with this ado . Why , hark ye , hark ye ! and are you such fools To square for this ? would it offend you , then That both should speed ?
CHIRON : Faith , not me .
DEMETRIUS : Nor me , so I were one .
AARON : For shame , be friends , and join for that you jar : ' Tis policy and stratagem must do That you affect ; and so must you resolve , That what you cannot as you would achieve , You must perforce accomplish as you may . Take this of me : Lucrece was not more chaste Than this Lavinia , Bassianus ' love . A speedier course than lingering languishment Must we pursue , and I have found the path . My lords , a solemn hunting is in hand ; There will the lovely Roman ladies troop : The forest walks are wide and spacious ; And many unfrequented plots there are Fitted by kind for rape and villany : Single you thither then this dainty doe , And strike her home by force , if not by words : This way , or not at all , stand you in hope . Come , come , our empress , with her sacred wit To villany and vengeance consecrate , Will we acquaint with all that we intend ; And she shall file our engines with advice , That will not suffer you to square yourselves , But to your wishes ' height advance you both . The emperor 's court is like the house of Fame , The palace full of tongues , of eyes , and ears : The woods are ruthless , dreadful , deaf , and dull ; There speak , and strike , brave boys , and take your turns ; There serve your lusts , shadow 'd from heaven 's eye , And revel in Lavinia 's treasury .
CHIRON : Thy counsel , lad , smells of no cowardice ,
