TITUS ANDRONICUS : Hear me , grave fathers ! noble tribunes , stay ! For pity of mine age , whose youth was spent In dangerous wars , whilst you securely slept ; For all my blood in Rome 's great quarrel shed ; For all the frosty nights that I have watch 'd ; And for these bitter tears , which now you see Filling the aged wrinkles in my cheeks ; Be pitiful to my condemned sons , Whose souls are not corrupted as ' tis thought . For two and twenty sons I never wept , Because they died in honour 's lofty bed . For these , these , tribunes , in the dust I write My heart 's deep languor and my soul 's sad tears : Let my tears stanch the earth 's dry appetite ; My sons ' sweet blood will make it shame and blush . O earth , I will befriend thee more with rain , That shall distil from these two ancient urns , Than youthful April shall with all his showers : In summer 's drought I 'll drop upon thee still ; In winter with warm tears I 'll melt the snow And keep eternal spring-time on thy face , So thou refuse to drink my dear sons ' blood . Enter LUCIUS , with his sword drawn O reverend tribunes ! O gentle , aged men ! Unbind my sons , reverse the doom of death ; And let me say , that never wept before , My tears are now prevailing orators .
LUCIUS : O noble father , you lament in vain : The tribunes hear you not ; no man is by ; And you recount your sorrows to a stone .
TITUS ANDRONICUS : Ah , Lucius , for thy brothers let me plead . Grave tribunes , once more I entreat of you , --
LUCIUS : My gracious lord , no tribune hears you speak .
TITUS ANDRONICUS : Why , tis no matter , man ; if they did hear , They would not mark me , or if they did mark , They would not pity me , yet plead I must ; Therefore I tell my sorrows to the stones ; Who , though they cannot answer my distress , Yet in some sort they are better than the tribunes , For that they will not intercept my tale : When I do weep , they humbly at my feet Receive my tears and seem to weep with me ; And , were they but attired in grave weeds , Rome could afford no tribune like to these . A stone is soft as wax , --tribunes more hard than stones ; A stone is silent , and offendeth not , And tribunes with their tongues doom men to death . Rises But wherefore stand 'st thou with thy weapon drawn ?
LUCIUS : To rescue my two brothers from their death : For which attempt the judges have pronounced My everlasting doom of banishment .
TITUS ANDRONICUS : O happy man ! they have befriended thee . Why , foolish Lucius , dost thou not perceive That Rome is but a wilderness of tigers ? Tigers must prey , and Rome affords no prey But me and mine : how happy art thou , then , From these devourers to be banished ! But who comes with our brother Marcus here ? Enter MARCUS and LAVINIA
MARCUS ANDRONICUS : Titus , prepare thy aged eyes to weep ; Or , if not so , thy noble heart to break : I bring consuming sorrow to thine age .
TITUS ANDRONICUS : Will it consume me ? let me see it , then .
MARCUS ANDRONICUS : This was thy daughter .
TITUS ANDRONICUS : Why , Marcus , so she is .
LUCIUS : Ay me , this object kills me !
