LUCIUS : Bring down the devil ; for he must not die So sweet a death as hanging presently .
AARON : If there be devils , would I were a devil , To live and burn in everlasting fire , So I might have your company in hell , But to torment you with my bitter tongue !
LUCIUS : Sirs , stop his mouth , and let him speak no more . Enter a Goth
Third Goth : My lord , there is a messenger from Rome Desires to be admitted to your presence .
LUCIUS : Let him come near . Enter AEMILIUS Welcome , AEmilius what 's the news from Rome ?
AEMILIUS : Lord Lucius , and you princes of the Goths , The Roman emperor greets you all by me ; And , for he understands you are in arms , He craves a parley at your father 's house , Willing you to demand your hostages , And they shall be immediately deliver 'd .
First Goth : What says our general ?
LUCIUS : AEmilius , let the emperor give his pledges Unto my father and my uncle Marcus , And we will come . March away . Enter TAMORA , DEMETRIUS , and CHIRON , disguised
TAMORA : Thus , in this strange and sad habiliment , I will encounter with Andronicus , And say I am Revenge , sent from below To join with him and right his heinous wrongs . Knock at his study , where , they say , he keeps , To ruminate strange plots of dire revenge ; Tell him Revenge is come to join with him , And work confusion on his enemies . They knock Enter TITUS , above
TITUS ANDRONICUS : Who doth molest my contemplation ? Is it your trick to make me ope the door , That so my sad decrees may fly away , And all my study be to no effect ? You are deceived : for what I mean to do See here in bloody lines I have set down ; And what is written shall be executed .
TAMORA : Titus , I am come to talk with thee .
TITUS ANDRONICUS : No , not a word ; how can I grace my talk , Wanting a hand to give it action ? Thou hast the odds of me ; therefore no more .
TAMORA : If thou didst know me , thou wouldest talk with me .
TITUS ANDRONICUS : I am not mad ; I know thee well enough : Witness this wretched stump , witness these crimson lines ; Witness these trenches made by grief and care , Witness the tiring day and heavy night ; Witness all sorrow , that I know thee well For our proud empress , mighty Tamora : Is not thy coming for my other hand ?
TAMORA : Know , thou sad man , I am not Tamora ; She is thy enemy , and I thy friend : I am Revenge : sent from the infernal kingdom , To ease the gnawing vulture of thy mind , By working wreakful vengeance on thy foes . Come down , and welcome me to this world 's light ; Confer with me of murder and of death : There 's not a hollow cave or lurking-place , No vast obscurity or misty vale , Where bloody murder or detested rape Can couch for fear , but I will find them out ; And in their ears tell them my dreadful name , Revenge , which makes the foul offender quake .
TITUS ANDRONICUS : Art thou Revenge ? and art thou sent to me , To be a torment to mine enemies ?
TAMORA : I am ; therefore come down , and welcome me .
