LUCIUS : Give us the proudest prisoner of the Goths , That we may hew his limbs , and on a pile Ad manes fratrum sacrifice his flesh , Before this earthy prison of their bones ; That so the shadows be not unappeased , Nor we disturb 'd with prodigies on earth .
TITUS ANDRONICUS : I give him you , the noblest that survives , The eldest son of this distressed queen .
TAMORA : Stay , Roman brethren ! Gracious conqueror , Victorious Titus , rue the tears I shed , A mother 's tears in passion for her son : And if thy sons were ever dear to thee , O , think my son to be as dear to me ! Sufficeth not that we are brought to Rome , To beautify thy triumphs and return , Captive to thee and to thy Roman yoke , But must my sons be slaughter 'd in the streets , For valiant doings in their country 's cause ? O , if to fight for king and commonweal Were piety in thine , it is in these . Andronicus , stain not thy tomb with blood : Wilt thou draw near the nature of the gods ? Draw near them then in being merciful : Sweet mercy is nobility 's true badge : Thrice noble Titus , spare my first-born son .
TITUS ANDRONICUS : Patient yourself , madam , and pardon me . These are their brethren , whom you Goths beheld Alive and dead , and for their brethren slain Religiously they ask a sacrifice : To this your son is mark 'd , and die he must , To appease their groaning shadows that are gone .
LUCIUS : Away with him ! and make a fire straight ; And with our swords , upon a pile of wood , Let 's hew his limbs till they be clean consumed .
TAMORA : O cruel , irreligious piety !
CHIRON : Was ever Scythia half so barbarous ?
DEMETRIUS : Oppose not Scythia to ambitious Rome . Alarbus goes to rest ; and we survive To tremble under Titus ' threatening looks . Then , madam , stand resolved , but hope withal The self-same gods that arm 'd the Queen of Troy With opportunity of sharp revenge Upon the Thracian tyrant in his tent , May favor Tamora , the Queen of Goths-- When Goths were Goths and Tamora was queen-- To quit the bloody wrongs upon her foes . Re-enter LUCIUS , QUINTUS , MARTIUS and MUTIUS , with their swords bloody
LUCIUS : See , lord and father , how we have perform 'd Our Roman rites : Alarbus ' limbs are lopp 'd , And entrails feed the sacrificing fire , Whose smoke , like incense , doth perfume the sky . Remaineth nought , but to inter our brethren , And with loud ' larums welcome them to Rome .
TITUS ANDRONICUS : Let it be so ; and let Andronicus Make this his latest farewell to their souls . Trumpets sounded , and the coffin laid in the tomb In peace and honour rest you here , my sons ; Rome 's readiest champions , repose you here in rest , Secure from worldly chances and mishaps ! Here lurks no treason , here no envy swells , Here grow no damned grudges ; here are no storms , No noise , but silence and eternal sleep : In peace and honour rest you here , my sons ! Enter LAVINIA
LAVINIA : In peace and honour live Lord Titus long ; My noble lord and father , live in fame ! Lo , at this tomb my tributary tears I render , for my brethren 's obsequies ; And at thy feet I kneel , with tears of joy , Shed on the earth , for thy return to Rome : O , bless me here with thy victorious hand , Whose fortunes Rome 's best citizens applaud !
TITUS ANDRONICUS : Kind Rome , that hast thus lovingly reserved The cordial of mine age to glad my heart ! Lavinia , live ; outlive thy father 's days , And fame 's eternal date , for virtue 's praise ! Enter , below , MARCUS ANDRONICUS and Tribunes ; re-enter SATURNINUS and BASSIANUS , attended
MARCUS ANDRONICUS : Long live Lord Titus , my beloved brother , Gracious triumpher in the eyes of Rome !
