TITUS ANDRONICUS : O , do ye read , my lord , what she hath writ ? ' Stuprum . Chiron . Demetrius . ' 
MARCUS ANDRONICUS : What , what ! the lustful sons of Tamora Performers of this heinous , bloody deed ?
TITUS ANDRONICUS : Magni Dominator poli , Tam lentus audis scelera ? tam lentus vides ?
MARCUS ANDRONICUS : O , calm thee , gentle lord ; although I know There is enough written upon this earth To stir a mutiny in the mildest thoughts And arm the minds of infants to exclaims . My lord , kneel down with me ; Lavinia , kneel ; And kneel , sweet boy , the Roman Hector 's hope ; And swear with me , as , with the woful fere And father of that chaste dishonour 'd dame , Lord Junius Brutus sware for Lucrece ' rape , That we will prosecute by good advice Mortal revenge upon these traitorous Goths , And see their blood , or die with this reproach .
TITUS ANDRONICUS : ' Tis sure enough , an you knew how . But if you hunt these bear-whelps , then beware : The dam will wake ; and , if she wind you once , She 's with the lion deeply still in league , And lulls him whilst she playeth on her back , And when he sleeps will she do what she list . You are a young huntsman , Marcus ; let it alone ; And , come , I will go get a leaf of brass , And with a gad of steel will write these words , And lay it by : the angry northern wind Will blow these sands , like Sibyl 's leaves , abroad , And where 's your lesson , then ? Boy , what say you ?
Young LUCIUS : I say , my lord , that if I were a man , Their mother 's bed-chamber should not be safe For these bad bondmen to the yoke of Rome .
MARCUS ANDRONICUS : Ay , that 's my boy ! thy father hath full oft For his ungrateful country done the like .
Young LUCIUS : And , uncle , so will I , an if I live .
TITUS ANDRONICUS : Come , go with me into mine armoury ; Lucius , I 'll fit thee ; and withal , my boy , Shalt carry from me to the empress ' sons Presents that I intend to send them both : Come , come ; thou 'lt do thy message , wilt thou not ?
Young LUCIUS : Ay , with my dagger in their bosoms , grandsire .
TITUS ANDRONICUS : No , boy , not so ; I 'll teach thee another course . Lavinia , come . Marcus , look to my house : Lucius and I 'll go brave it at the court : Ay , marry , will we , sir ; and we 'll be waited on .
MARCUS ANDRONICUS : O heavens , can you hear a good man groan , And not relent , or not compassion him ? Marcus , attend him in his ecstasy , That hath more scars of sorrow in his heart Than foemen 's marks upon his batter 'd shield ; But yet so just that he will not revenge . Revenge , ye heavens , for old Andronicus ! Exit Enter , from one side , AARON , DEMETRIUS , and CHIRON ; from the other side , Young LUCIUS , and an Attendant , with a bundle of weapons , and verses writ upon them
CHIRON : Demetrius , here 's the son of Lucius ; He hath some message to deliver us .
AARON : Ay , some mad message from his mad grandfather .
Young LUCIUS : My lords , with all the humbleness I may , I greet your honours from Andronicus . Aside And pray the Roman gods confound you both !
DEMETRIUS : Gramercy , lovely Lucius : what 's the news ?
