MARCUS ANDRONICUS : That , on mine honour , here I do protest .
SATURNINUS : Away , and talk not ; trouble us no more .
TAMORA : Nay , nay , sweet emperor , we must all be friends : The tribune and his nephews kneel for grace ; I will not be denied : sweet heart , look back .
SATURNINUS : Marcus , for thy sake and thy brother 's here , And at my lovely Tamora 's entreats , I do remit these young men 's heinous faults : Stand up . Lavinia , though you left me like a churl , I found a friend , and sure as death I swore I would not part a bachelor from the priest . Come , if the emperor 's court can feast two brides , You are my guest , Lavinia , and your friends . This day shall be a love-day , Tamora .
TITUS ANDRONICUS : To-morrow , an it please your majesty To hunt the panther and the hart with me , With horn and hound we 'll give your grace bonjour .
SATURNINUS : Be it so , Titus , and gramercy too . Enter AARON
AARON : Now climbeth Tamora Olympus ' top , Safe out of fortune 's shot ; and sits aloft , Secure of thunder 's crack or lightning flash ; Advanced above pale envy 's threatening reach . As when the golden sun salutes the morn , And , having gilt the ocean with his beams , Gallops the zodiac in his glistering coach , And overlooks the highest-peering hills ; So Tamora : Upon her wit doth earthly honour wait , And virtue stoops and trembles at her frown . Then , Aaron , arm thy heart , and fit thy thoughts , To mount aloft with thy imperial mistress , And mount her pitch , whom thou in triumph long Hast prisoner held , fetter 'd in amorous chains And faster bound to Aaron 's charming eyes Than is Prometheus tied to Caucasus . Away with slavish weeds and servile thoughts ! I will be bright , and shine in pearl and gold , To wait upon this new-made empress . To wait , said I ? to wanton with this queen , This goddess , this Semiramis , this nymph , This siren , that will charm Rome 's Saturnine , And see his shipwreck and his commonweal 's . Holloa ! what storm is this ? Enter DEMETRIUS and CHIRON , braving
DEMETRIUS : Chiron , thy years want wit , thy wit wants edge , And manners , to intrude where I am graced ; And may , for aught thou know 'st , affected be .
CHIRON : Demetrius , thou dost over-ween in all ; And so in this , to bear me down with braves . ' Tis not the difference of a year or two Makes me less gracious or thee more fortunate : I am as able and as fit as thou To serve , and to deserve my mistress ' grace ; And that my sword upon thee shall approve , And plead my passions for Lavinia 's love .
AARON : Clubs , clubs ! these lovers will not keep the peace .
DEMETRIUS : Why , boy , although our mother , unadvised , Gave you a dancing-rapier by your side , Are you so desperate grown , to threat your friends ? Go to ; have your lath glued within your sheath Till you know better how to handle it .
CHIRON : Meanwhile , sir , with the little skill I have , Full well shalt thou perceive how much I dare .
DEMETRIUS : Ay , boy , grow ye so brave ? They draw
AARON : Why , how now , lords ! So near the emperor 's palace dare you draw , And maintain such a quarrel openly ? Full well I wot the ground of all this grudge : I would not for a million of gold The cause were known to them it most concerns ; Nor would your noble mother for much more Be so dishonour 'd in the court of Rome . For shame , put up .
DEMETRIUS : Not I , till I have sheathed My rapier in his bosom and withal Thrust these reproachful speeches down his throat That he hath breathed in my dishonour here .
