AEMILIUS : Your bidding shall I do effectually . Exit
TAMORA : Now will I to that old Andronicus ; And temper him with all the art I have , To pluck proud Lucius from the warlike Goths . And now , sweet emperor , be blithe again , And bury all thy fear in my devices .
SATURNINUS : Then go successantly , and plead to him . Enter LUCIUS with an army of Goths , with drum and colours
LUCIUS : Approved warriors , and my faithful friends , I have received letters from great Rome , Which signify what hate they bear their emperor And how desirous of our sight they are . Therefore , great lords , be , as your titles witness , Imperious and impatient of your wrongs , And wherein Rome hath done you any scath , Let him make treble satisfaction .
First Goth : Brave slip , sprung from the great Andronicus , Whose name was once our terror , now our comfort ; Whose high exploits and honourable deeds Ingrateful Rome requites with foul contempt , Be bold in us : we 'll follow where thou lead 'st , Like stinging bees in hottest summer 's day Led by their master to the flowered fields , And be avenged on cursed Tamora .
All the Goths : And as he saith , so say we all with him .
LUCIUS : I humbly thank him , and I thank you all . But who comes here , led by a lusty Goth ? Enter a Goth , leading AARON with his Child in his arms
Second Goth : Renowned Lucius , from our troops I stray 'd To gaze upon a ruinous monastery ; And , as I earnestly did fix mine eye Upon the wasted building , suddenly I heard a child cry underneath a wall . I made unto the noise ; when soon I heard The crying babe controll 'd with this discourse : ' Peace , tawny slave , half me and half thy dam ! Did not thy hue bewray whose brat thou art , Had nature lent thee but thy mother 's look , Villain , thou mightst have been an emperor : But where the bull and cow are both milk-white , They never do beget a coal-black calf . Peace , villain , peace ! ' --even thus he rates the babe , -- ' For I must bear thee to a trusty Goth ; Who , when he knows thou art the empress ' babe , Will hold thee dearly for thy mother 's sake . ' With this , my weapon drawn , I rush 'd upon him , Surprised him suddenly , and brought him hither , To use as you think needful of the man .
LUCIUS : O worthy Goth , this is the incarnate devil That robb 'd Andronicus of his good hand ; This is the pearl that pleased your empress ' eye , And here 's the base fruit of his burning lust . Say , wall-eyed slave , whither wouldst thou convey This growing image of thy fiend-like face ? Why dost not speak ? what , deaf ? not a word ? A halter , soldiers ! hang him on this tree . And by his side his fruit of bastardy .
AARON : Touch not the boy ; he is of royal blood .
LUCIUS : Too like the sire for ever being good . First hang the child , that he may see it sprawl ; A sight to vex the father 's soul withal . Get me a ladder . A ladder brought , which AARON is made to ascend
AARON : Lucius , save the child , And bear it from me to the empress . If thou do this , I 'll show thee wondrous things , That highly may advantage thee to hear : If thou wilt not , befall what may befall , I 'll speak no more but ' Vengeance rot you all ! '
LUCIUS : Say on : an if it please me which thou speak 'st Thy child shall live , and I will see it nourish 'd .
