MARCUS ANDRONICUS : And welcome , nephews , from successful wars , You that survive , and you that sleep in fame ! Fair lords , your fortunes are alike in all , That in your country 's service drew your swords : But safer triumph is this funeral pomp , That hath aspired to Solon 's happiness And triumphs over chance in honour 's bed . Titus Andronicus , the people of Rome , Whose friend in justice thou hast ever been , Send thee by me , their tribune and their trust , This palliament of white and spotless hue ; And name thee in election for the empire , With these our late-deceased emperor 's sons : Be candidatus then , and put it on , And help to set a head on headless Rome .
TITUS ANDRONICUS : A better head her glorious body fits Than his that shakes for age and feebleness : What should I don this robe , and trouble you ? Be chosen with proclamations to-day , To-morrow yield up rule , resign my life , And set abroad new business for you all ? Rome , I have been thy soldier forty years , And led my country 's strength successfully , And buried one and twenty valiant sons , Knighted in field , slain manfully in arms , In right and service of their noble country Give me a staff of honour for mine age , But not a sceptre to control the world : Upright he held it , lords , that held it last .
MARCUS ANDRONICUS : Titus , thou shalt obtain and ask the empery .
SATURNINUS : Proud and ambitious tribune , canst thou tell ?
TITUS ANDRONICUS : Patience , Prince Saturninus .
SATURNINUS : Romans , do me right : Patricians , draw your swords : and sheathe them not Till Saturninus be Rome 's emperor . Andronicus , would thou wert shipp 'd to hell , Rather than rob me of the people 's hearts !
LUCIUS : Proud Saturnine , interrupter of the good That noble-minded Titus means to thee !
TITUS ANDRONICUS : Content thee , prince ; I will restore to thee The people 's hearts , and wean them from themselves .
BASSIANUS : Andronicus , I do not flatter thee , But honour thee , and will do till I die : My faction if thou strengthen with thy friends , I will most thankful be ; and thanks to men Of noble minds is honourable meed .
TITUS ANDRONICUS : People of Rome , and people 's tribunes here , I ask your voices and your suffrages : Will you bestow them friendly on Andronicus ?
Tribunes : To gratify the good Andronicus , And gratulate his safe return to Rome , The people will accept whom he admits .
TITUS ANDRONICUS : Tribunes , I thank you : and this suit I make , That you create your emperor 's eldest son , Lord Saturnine ; whose virtues will , I hope , Reflect on Rome as Titan 's rays on earth , And ripen justice in this commonweal : Then , if you will elect by my advice , Crown him and say ' Long live our emperor ! '
MARCUS ANDRONICUS : With voices and applause of every sort , Patricians and plebeians , we create Lord Saturninus Rome 's great emperor , And say ' Long live our Emperor Saturnine ! ' A long flourish till they come down
SATURNINUS : Titus Andronicus , for thy favors done To us in our election this day , I give thee thanks in part of thy deserts , And will with deeds requite thy gentleness : And , for an onset , Titus , to advance Thy name and honourable family , Lavinia will I make my empress , Rome 's royal mistress , mistress of my heart , And in the sacred Pantheon her espouse : Tell me , Andronicus , doth this motion please thee ?
