MARTIUS : O brother , with the dismall 'st object hurt That ever eye with sight made heart lament !
AARON : Now will I fetch the king to find them here , That he thereby may give a likely guess How these were they that made away his brother . Exit
MARTIUS : Why dost not comfort me , and help me out From this unhallowed and blood-stained hole ?
QUINTUS : I am surprised with an uncouth fear ; A chilling sweat o 'er-runs my trembling joints : My heart suspects more than mine eye can see .
MARTIUS : To prove thou hast a true-divining heart , Aaron and thou look down into this den , And see a fearful sight of blood and death .
QUINTUS : Aaron is gone ; and my compassionate heart Will not permit mine eyes once to behold The thing whereat it trembles by surmise ; O , tell me how it is ; for ne 'er till now Was I a child to fear I know not what .
MARTIUS : Lord Bassianus lies embrewed here , All on a heap , like to a slaughter 'd lamb , In this detested , dark , blood-drinking pit .
QUINTUS : If it be dark , how dost thou know ' tis he ?
MARTIUS : Upon his bloody finger he doth wear A precious ring , that lightens all the hole , Which , like a taper in some monument , Doth shine upon the dead man 's earthy cheeks , And shows the ragged entrails of the pit : So pale did shine the moon on Pyramus When he by night lay bathed in maiden blood . O brother , help me with thy fainting hand-- If fear hath made thee faint , as me it hath-- Out of this fell devouring receptacle , As hateful as Cocytus ' misty mouth .
QUINTUS : Reach me thy hand , that I may help thee out ; Or , wanting strength to do thee so much good , I may be pluck 'd into the swallowing womb Of this deep pit , poor Bassianus ' grave . I have no strength to pluck thee to the brink .
MARTIUS : Nor I no strength to climb without thy help .
QUINTUS : Thy hand once more ; I will not loose again , Till thou art here aloft , or I below : Thou canst not come to me : I come to thee . Falls in Enter SATURNINUS with AARON
SATURNINUS : Along with me : I 'll see what hole is here , And what he is that now is leap 'd into it . Say who art thou that lately didst descend Into this gaping hollow of the earth ?
MARTIUS : The unhappy son of old Andronicus : Brought hither in a most unlucky hour , To find thy brother Bassianus dead .
SATURNINUS : My brother dead ! I know thou dost but jest : He and his lady both are at the lodge Upon the north side of this pleasant chase ; ' Tis not an hour since I left him there .
MARTIUS : We know not where you left him all alive ; But , out , alas ! here have we found him dead . Re-enter TAMORA , with Attendants ; TITUS ANDRONICUS , and Lucius
TAMORA : Where is my lord the king ?
SATURNINUS : Here , Tamora , though grieved with killing grief .
TAMORA : Where is thy brother Bassianus ?
SATURNINUS : Now to the bottom dost thou search my wound : Poor Bassianus here lies murdered .
TAMORA : Then all too late I bring this fatal writ , The complot of this timeless tragedy ; And wonder greatly that man 's face can fold In pleasing smiles such murderous tyranny . She giveth SATURNINUS a letter
