TAMORA : My gracious lord , my lovely Saturnine , Lord of my life , commander of my thoughts , Calm thee , and bear the faults of Titus ' age , The effects of sorrow for his valiant sons , Whose loss hath pierced him deep and scarr 'd his heart ; And rather comfort his distressed plight Than prosecute the meanest or the best For these contempts . Aside Why , thus it shall become High-witted Tamora to gloze with all : But , Titus , I have touched thee to the quick , Thy life-blood out : if Aaron now be wise , Then is all safe , the anchor 's in the port . Enter Clown How now , good fellow ! wouldst thou speak with us ?
Clown : Yea , forsooth , an your mistership be emperial .
TAMORA : Empress I am , but yonder sits the emperor .
Clown : ' Tis he . God and Saint Stephen give you good den : I have brought you a letter and a couple of pigeons here . SATURNINUS reads the letter
SATURNINUS : Go , take him away , and hang him presently .
Clown : How much money must I have ?
TAMORA : Come , sirrah , you must be hanged .
Clown : Hanged ! by 'r lady , then I have brought up a neck to a fair end . Exit , guarded
SATURNINUS : Despiteful and intolerable wrongs ! Shall I endure this monstrous villany ? I know from whence this same device proceeds : May this be borne ? --as if his traitorous sons , That died by law for murder of our brother , Have by my means been butcher 'd wrongfully ! Go , drag the villain hither by the hair ; Nor age nor honour shall shape privilege : For this proud mock I 'll be thy slaughterman ; Sly frantic wretch , that holp 'st to make me great , In hope thyself should govern Rome and me . Enter AEMILIUS What news with thee , AEmilius ?
AEMILIUS : Arm , arm , my lord ; --Rome never had more cause . The Goths have gather 'd head ; and with a power high-resolved men , bent to the spoil , They hither march amain , under conduct Of Lucius , son to old Andronicus ; Who threats , in course of this revenge , to do As much as ever Coriolanus did .
SATURNINUS : Is warlike Lucius general of the Goths ? These tidings nip me , and I hang the head As flowers with frost or grass beat down with storms : Ay , now begin our sorrows to approach : ' Tis he the common people love so much ; Myself hath often over-heard them say , When I have walked like a private man , That Lucius ' banishment was wrongfully , And they have wish 'd that Lucius were their emperor .
TAMORA : Why should you fear ? is not your city strong ?
SATURNINUS : Ay , but the citizens favor Lucius , And will revolt from me to succor him .
TAMORA : King , be thy thoughts imperious , like thy name . Is the sun dimm 'd , that gnats do fly in it ? The eagle suffers little birds to sing , And is not careful what they mean thereby , Knowing that with the shadow of his wings He can at pleasure stint their melody : Even so mayst thou the giddy men of Rome . Then cheer thy spirit : for know , thou emperor , I will enchant the old Andronicus With words more sweet , and yet more dangerous , Than baits to fish , or honey-stalks to sheep , When as the one is wounded with the bait , The other rotted with delicious feed .
SATURNINUS : But he will not entreat his son for us .
TAMORA : If Tamora entreat him , then he will : For I can smooth and fill his aged ear With golden promises ; that , were his heart Almost impregnable , his old ears deaf , Yet should both ear and heart obey my tongue . To AEmilius Go thou before , be our ambassador : Say that the emperor requests a parley Of warlike Lucius , and appoint the meeting Even at his father 's house , the old Andronicus .
