TAMORA : These are my ministers , and come with me .
TITUS ANDRONICUS : Are these thy ministers ? what are they call 'd ?
TAMORA : Rapine and Murder ; therefore called so , Cause they take vengeance of such kind of men .
TITUS ANDRONICUS : Good Lord , how like the empress ' sons they are ! And you , the empress ! but we worldly men Have miserable , mad , mistaking eyes . O sweet Revenge , now do I come to thee ; And , if one arm 's embracement will content thee , I will embrace thee in it by and by . Exit above
TAMORA : This closing with him fits his lunacy Whate 'er I forge to feed his brain-sick fits , Do you uphold and maintain in your speeches , For now he firmly takes me for Revenge ; And , being credulous in this mad thought , I 'll make him send for Lucius his son ; And , whilst I at a banquet hold him sure , I 'll find some cunning practise out of hand , To scatter and disperse the giddy Goths , Or , at the least , make them his enemies . See , here he comes , and I must ply my theme . Enter TITUS below
TITUS ANDRONICUS : Long have I been forlorn , and all for thee : Welcome , dread Fury , to my woful house : Rapine and Murder , you are welcome too . How like the empress and her sons you are ! Well are you fitted , had you but a Moor : Could not all hell afford you such a devil ? For well I wot the empress never wags But in her company there is a Moor ; And , would you represent our queen aright , It were convenient you had such a devil : But welcome , as you are . What shall we do ?
TAMORA : What wouldst thou have us do , Andronicus ?
DEMETRIUS : Show me a murderer , I 'll deal with him .
CHIRON : Show me a villain that hath done a rape , And I am sent to be revenged on him .
TAMORA : Show me a thousand that have done thee wrong , And I will be revenged on them all .
TITUS ANDRONICUS : Look round about the wicked streets of Rome ; And when thou find 'st a man that 's like thyself . Good Murder , stab him ; he 's a murderer . Go thou with him ; and when it is thy hap To find another that is like to thee , Good Rapine , stab him ; he 's a ravisher . Go thou with them ; and in the emperor 's court There is a queen , attended by a Moor ; Well mayst thou know her by thy own proportion , for up and down she doth resemble thee : I pray thee , do on them some violent death ; They have been violent to me and mine .
TAMORA : Well hast thou lesson 'd us ; this shall we do . But would it please thee , good Andronicus , To send for Lucius , thy thrice-valiant son , Who leads towards Rome a band of warlike Goths , And bid him come and banquet at thy house ; When he is here , even at thy solemn feast , I will bring in the empress and her sons , The emperor himself and all thy foes ; And at thy mercy shalt they stoop and kneel , And on them shalt thou ease thy angry heart . What says Andronicus to this device ?
TITUS ANDRONICUS : Marcus , my brother ! ' tis sad Titus calls . Enter MARCUS Go , gentle Marcus , to thy nephew Lucius ; Thou shalt inquire him out among the Goths : Bid him repair to me , and bring with him Some of the chiefest princes of the Goths ; Bid him encamp his soldiers where they are : Tell him the emperor and the empress too Feast at my house , and he shall feast with them . This do thou for my love ; and so let him , As he regards his aged father 's life .
MARCUS ANDRONICUS : This will I do , and soon return again . Exit
