MARCUS ANDRONICUS : You sad-faced men , people and sons of Rome , By uproar sever 'd , like a flight of fowl Scatter 'd by winds and high tempestuous gusts , O , let me teach you how to knit again This scatter 'd corn into one mutual sheaf , These broken limbs again into one body ; Lest Rome herself be bane unto herself , And she whom mighty kingdoms court 'sy to , Like a forlorn and desperate castaway , Do shameful execution on herself . But if my frosty signs and chaps of age , Grave witnesses of true experience , Cannot induce you to attend my words , To LUCIUS Speak , Rome 's dear friend , as erst our ancestor , When with his solemn tongue he did discourse To love-sick Dido 's sad attending ear The story of that baleful burning night When subtle Greeks surprised King Priam 's Troy , Tell us what Sinon hath bewitch 'd our ears , Or who hath brought the fatal engine in That gives our Troy , our Rome , the civil wound . My heart is not compact of flint nor steel ; Nor can I utter all our bitter grief , But floods of tears will drown my oratory , And break my utterance , even in the time When it should move you to attend me most , Lending your kind commiseration . Here is a captain , let him tell the tale ; Your hearts will throb and weep to hear him speak .
LUCIUS : Then , noble auditory , be it known to you , That cursed Chiron and Demetrius Were they that murdered our emperor 's brother ; And they it were that ravished our sister : For their fell faults our brothers were beheaded ; Our father 's tears despised , and basely cozen 'd Of that true hand that fought Rome 's quarrel out , And sent her enemies unto the grave . Lastly , myself unkindly banished , The gates shut on me , and turn 'd weeping out , To beg relief among Rome 's enemies : Who drown 'd their enmity in my true tears . And oped their arms to embrace me as a friend . I am the turned forth , be it known to you , That have preserved her welfare in my blood ; And from her bosom took the enemy 's point , Sheathing the steel in my adventurous body . Alas , you know I am no vaunter , I ; My scars can witness , dumb although they are , That my report is just and full of truth . But , soft ! methinks I do digress too much , Citing my worthless praise : O , pardon me ; For when no friends are by , men praise themselves .
MARCUS ANDRONICUS : Now is my turn to speak . Behold this child : Pointing to the Child in the arms of an Attendant Of this was Tamora delivered ; The issue of an irreligious Moor , Chief architect and plotter of these woes : The villain is alive in Titus ' house , And as he is , to witness this is true . Now judge what cause had Titus to revenge These wrongs , unspeakable , past patience , Or more than any living man could bear . Now you have heard the truth , what say you , Romans ? Have we done aught amiss , --show us wherein , And , from the place where you behold us now , The poor remainder of Andronici Will , hand in hand , all headlong cast us down . And on the ragged stones beat forth our brains , And make a mutual closure of our house . Speak , Romans , speak ; and if you say we shall , Lo , hand in hand , Lucius and I will fall .
AEMILIUS : Come , come , thou reverend man of Rome , And bring our emperor gently in thy hand , Lucius our emperor ; for well I know The common voice do cry it shall be so .
All : Lucius , all hail , Rome 's royal emperor !
MARCUS ANDRONICUS : Go , go into old Titus ' sorrowful house , To Attendants And hither hale that misbelieving Moor , To be adjudged some direful slaughtering death , As punishment for his most wicked life . LUCIUS , MARCUS , and the others descend
