TITUS ANDRONICUS : The hunt is up , the morn is bright and grey , The fields are fragrant and the woods are green : Uncouple here and let us make a bay And wake the emperor and his lovely bride And rouse the prince and ring a hunter 's peal , That all the court may echo with the noise . Sons , let it be your charge , as it is ours , To attend the emperor 's person carefully : I have been troubled in my sleep this night , But dawning day new comfort hath inspired . A cry of hounds and horns , winded in a peal . Enter SATURNINUS , TAMORA , BASSIANUS , LAVINIA , DEMETRIUS , CHIRON , and Attendants Many good morrows to your majesty ; Madam , to you as many and as good : I promised your grace a hunter 's peal .
SATURNINUS : And you have rung it lustily , my lord ; Somewhat too early for new-married ladies .
BASSIANUS : Lavinia , how say you ?
LAVINIA : I say , no ; I have been broad awake two hours and more .
SATURNINUS : Come on , then ; horse and chariots let us have , And to our sport . To TAMORA Madam , now shall ye see Our Roman hunting .
MARCUS ANDRONICUS : I have dogs , my lord , Will rouse the proudest panther in the chase , And climb the highest promontory top .
TITUS ANDRONICUS : And I have horse will follow where the game Makes way , and run like swallows o 'er the plain .
DEMETRIUS : Chiron , we hunt not , we , with horse nor hound , But hope to pluck a dainty doe to ground . Enter AARON , with a bag of gold
AARON : He that had wit would think that I had none , To bury so much gold under a tree , And never after to inherit it . Let him that thinks of me so abjectly Know that this gold must coin a stratagem , Which , cunningly effected , will beget A very excellent piece of villany : And so repose , sweet gold , for their unrest Hides the gold That have their alms out of the empress ' chest . Enter TAMORA
TAMORA : My lovely Aaron , wherefore look 'st thou sad , When every thing doth make a gleeful boast ? The birds chant melody on every bush , The snake lies rolled in the cheerful sun , The green leaves quiver with the cooling wind And make a chequer 'd shadow on the ground : Under their sweet shade , Aaron , let us sit , And , whilst the babbling echo mocks the hounds , Replying shrilly to the well-tuned horns , As if a double hunt were heard at once , Let us sit down and mark their yelping noise ; And , after conflict such as was supposed The wandering prince and Dido once enjoy 'd , When with a happy storm they were surprised And curtain 'd with a counsel-keeping cave , We may , each wreathed in the other 's arms , Our pastimes done , possess a golden slumber ; Whiles hounds and horns and sweet melodious birds Be unto us as is a nurse 's song Of lullaby to bring her babe asleep .
AARON : Madam , though Venus govern your desires , Saturn is dominator over mine : What signifies my deadly-standing eye , My silence and my cloudy melancholy , My fleece of woolly hair that now uncurls Even as an adder when she doth unroll To do some fatal execution ? No , madam , these are no venereal signs : Vengeance is in my heart , death in my hand , Blood and revenge are hammering in my head . Hark Tamora , the empress of my soul , Which never hopes more heaven than rests in thee , This is the day of doom for Bassianus : His Philomel must lose her tongue to-day , Thy sons make pillage of her chastity And wash their hands in Bassianus ' blood . Seest thou this letter ? take it up , I pray thee , And give the king this fatal plotted scroll . Now question me no more ; we are espied ; Here comes a parcel of our hopeful booty , Which dreads not yet their lives ' destruction .
