SATURNINUS : Noble patricians , patrons of my right , Defend the justice of my cause with arms , And , countrymen , my loving followers , Plead my successive title with your swords : I am his first-born son , that was the last That wore the imperial diadem of Rome ; Then let my father 's honours live in me , Nor wrong mine age with this indignity .
BASSIANUS : Romans , friends , followers , favorers of my right , If ever Bassianus , Caesar 's son , Were gracious in the eyes of royal Rome , Keep then this passage to the Capitol And suffer not dishonour to approach The imperial seat , to virtue consecrate , To justice , continence and nobility ; But let desert in pure election shine , And , Romans , fight for freedom in your choice . Enter MARCUS ANDRONICUS , aloft , with the crown
MARCUS ANDRONICUS : Princes , that strive by factions and by friends Ambitiously for rule and empery , Know that the people of Rome , for whom we stand A special party , have , by common voice , In election for the Roman empery , Chosen Andronicus , surnamed Pius For many good and great deserts to Rome : A nobler man , a braver warrior , Lives not this day within the city walls : He by the senate is accit 'd home From weary wars against the barbarous Goths ; That , with his sons , a terror to our foes , Hath yoked a nation strong , train 'd up in arms . Ten years are spent since first he undertook This cause of Rome and chastised with arms Our enemies ' pride : five times he hath return 'd Bleeding to Rome , bearing his valiant sons In coffins from the field ; And now at last , laden with horror 's spoils , Returns the good Andronicus to Rome , Renowned Titus , flourishing in arms . Let us entreat , by honour of his name , Whom worthily you would have now succeed . And in the Capitol and senate 's right , Whom you pretend to honour and adore , That you withdraw you and abate your strength ; Dismiss your followers and , as suitors should , Plead your deserts in peace and humbleness .
SATURNINUS : How fair the tribune speaks to calm my thoughts !
BASSIANUS : Marcus Andronicus , so I do ally In thy uprightness and integrity , And so I love and honour thee and thine , Thy noble brother Titus and his sons , And her to whom my thoughts are humbled all , Gracious Lavinia , Rome 's rich ornament , That I will here dismiss my loving friends , And to my fortunes and the people 's favor Commit my cause in balance to be weigh 'd .
SATURNINUS : Friends , that have been thus forward in my right , I thank you all and here dismiss you all , And to the love and favor of my country Commit myself , my person and the cause . Rome , be as just and gracious unto me As I am confident and kind to thee . Open the gates , and let me in .
BASSIANUS : Tribunes , and me , a poor competitor . Flourish . SATURNINUS and BASSIANUS go up into the Capitol Enter a Captain
Captain : Romans , make way : the good Andronicus . Patron of virtue , Rome 's best champion , Successful in the battles that he fights , With honour and with fortune is return 'd From where he circumscribed with his sword , And brought to yoke , the enemies of Rome . Drums and trumpets sounded . Enter MARTIUS and MUTIUS ; After them , two Men bearing a coffin covered with black ; then LUCIUS and QUINTUS . After them , TITUS ANDRONICUS ; and then TAMORA , with ALARBUS , DEMETRIUS , CHIRON , AARON , and other Goths , prisoners ; Soldiers and people following . The Bearers set down the coffin , and TITUS speaks
