AARON : Sooner this sword shall plough thy bowels up . Takes the Child from the Nurse , and draws Stay , murderous villains ! will you kill your brother ? Now , by the burning tapers of the sky , That shone so brightly when this boy was got , He dies upon my scimitar 's sharp point That touches this my first-born son and heir ! I tell you , younglings , not Enceladus , With all his threatening band of Typhon 's brood , Nor great Alcides , nor the god of war , Shall seize this prey out of his father 's hands . What , what , ye sanguine , shallow-hearted boys ! Ye white-limed walls ! ye alehouse painted signs ! Coal-black is better than another hue , In that it scorns to bear another hue ; For all the water in the ocean Can never turn the swan 's black legs to white , Although she lave them hourly in the flood . Tell the empress from me , I am of age To keep mine own , excuse it how she can .
DEMETRIUS : Wilt thou betray thy noble mistress thus ?
AARON : My mistress is my mistress ; this myself , The vigour and the picture of my youth : This before all the world do I prefer ; This maugre all the world will I keep safe , Or some of you shall smoke for it in Rome .
DEMETRIUS : By this our mother is forever shamed .
CHIRON : Rome will despise her for this foul escape .
Nurse : The emperor , in his rage , will doom her death .
CHIRON : I blush to think upon this ignomy .
AARON : Why , there 's the privilege your beauty bears : Fie , treacherous hue , that will betray with blushing The close enacts and counsels of the heart ! Here 's a young lad framed of another leer : Look , how the black slave smiles upon the father , As who should say ' Old lad , I am thine own . ' He is your brother , lords , sensibly fed Of that self-blood that first gave life to you , And from that womb where you imprison 'd were He is enfranchised and come to light : Nay , he is your brother by the surer side , Although my seal be stamped in his face .
Nurse : Aaron , what shall I say unto the empress ?
DEMETRIUS : Advise thee , Aaron , what is to be done , And we will all subscribe to thy advice : Save thou the child , so we may all be safe .
AARON : Then sit we down , and let us all consult . My son and I will have the wind of you : Keep there : now talk at pleasure of your safety . They sit
DEMETRIUS : How many women saw this child of his ?
AARON : Why , so , brave lords ! when we join in league , I am a lamb : but if you brave the Moor , The chafed boar , the mountain lioness , The ocean swells not so as Aaron storms . But say , again ; how many saw the child ?
Nurse : Cornelia the midwife and myself ; And no one else but the deliver 'd empress .
AARON : The empress , the midwife , and yourself : Two may keep counsel when the third 's away : Go to the empress , tell her this I said . He kills the nurse Weke , weke ! so cries a pig prepared to the spit .
DEMETRIUS : What mean 'st thou , Aaron ? wherefore didst thou this ?
