SATURNINUS : So , Bassianus , you have play 'd your prize : God give you joy , sir , of your gallant bride !
BASSIANUS : And you of yours , my lord ! I say no more , Nor wish no less ; and so , I take my leave .
SATURNINUS : Traitor , if Rome have law or we have power , Thou and thy faction shall repent this rape .
BASSIANUS : Rape , call you it , my lord , to seize my own , My truth-betrothed love and now my wife ? But let the laws of Rome determine all ; Meanwhile I am possess 'd of that is mine .
SATURNINUS : ' Tis good , sir : you are very short with us ; But , if we live , we 'll be as sharp with you .
BASSIANUS : My lord , what I have done , as best I may , Answer I must and shall do with my life . Only thus much I give your grace to know : By all the duties that I owe to Rome , This noble gentleman , Lord Titus here , Is in opinion and in honour wrong 'd ; That in the rescue of Lavinia With his own hand did slay his youngest son , In zeal to you and highly moved to wrath To be controll 'd in that he frankly gave : Receive him , then , to favor , Saturnine , That hath express 'd himself in all his deeds A father and a friend to thee and Rome .
TITUS ANDRONICUS : Prince Bassianus , leave to plead my deeds : ' Tis thou and those that have dishonour 'd me . Rome and the righteous heavens be my judge , How I have loved and honour 'd Saturnine !
TAMORA : My worthy lord , if ever Tamora Were gracious in those princely eyes of thine , Then hear me speak in indifferently for all ; And at my suit , sweet , pardon what is past .
SATURNINUS : What , madam ! be dishonour 'd openly , And basely put it up without revenge ?
TAMORA : Not so , my lord ; the gods of Rome forfend I should be author to dishonour you ! But on mine honour dare I undertake For good Lord Titus ' innocence in all ; Whose fury not dissembled speaks his griefs : Then , at my suit , look graciously on him ; Lose not so noble a friend on vain suppose , Nor with sour looks afflict his gentle heart . Aside to SATURNINUS be won at last ; Dissemble all your griefs and discontents : You are but newly planted in your throne ; Lest , then , the people , and patricians too , Upon a just survey , take Titus ' part , And so supplant you for ingratitude , Which Rome reputes to be a heinous sin , Yield at entreats ; and then let me alone : I 'll find a day to massacre them all And raze their faction and their family , The cruel father and his traitorous sons , To whom I sued for my dear son 's life , And make them know what ' tis to let a queen Kneel in the streets and beg for grace in vain . Aloud Come , come , sweet emperor ; come , Andronicus ; Take up this good old man , and cheer the heart That dies in tempest of thy angry frown .
SATURNINUS : Rise , Titus , rise ; my empress hath prevail 'd .
TITUS ANDRONICUS : I thank your majesty , and her , my lord : These words , these looks , infuse new life in me .
TAMORA : Titus , I am incorporate in Rome , A Roman now adopted happily , And must advise the emperor for his good . This day all quarrels die , Andronicus ; And let it be mine honour , good my lord , That I have reconciled your friends and you . For you , Prince Bassianus , I have pass 'd My word and promise to the emperor , That you will be more mild and tractable . And fear not lords , and you , Lavinia ; By my advice , all humbled on your knees , You shall ask pardon of his majesty .
