LUCIUS : Tell on thy mind ; I say thy child shall live .
AARON : Swear that he shall , and then I will begin .
LUCIUS : Who should I swear by ? thou believest no god : That granted , how canst thou believe an oath ?
AARON : What if I do not ? as , indeed , I do not ; Yet , for I know thou art religious And hast a thing within thee called conscience , With twenty popish tricks and ceremonies , Which I have seen thee careful to observe , Therefore I urge thy oath ; for that I know An idiot holds his bauble for a god And keeps the oath which by that god he swears , To that I 'll urge him : therefore thou shalt vow By that same god , what god soe 'er it be , That thou adorest and hast in reverence , To save my boy , to nourish and bring him up ; Or else I will discover nought to thee .
LUCIUS : Even by my god I swear to thee I will .
AARON : First know thou , I begot him on the empress .
LUCIUS : O most insatiate and luxurious woman !
AARON : Tut , Lucius , this was but a deed of charity To that which thou shalt hear of me anon . ' Twas her two sons that murder 'd Bassianus ; They cut thy sister 's tongue and ravish 'd her And cut her hands and trimm 'd her as thou saw 'st .
LUCIUS : O detestable villain ! call 'st thou that trimming ?
AARON : Why , she was wash 'd and cut and trimm 'd , and ' twas Trim sport for them that had the doing of it .
LUCIUS : O barbarous , beastly villains , like thyself !
AARON : Indeed , I was their tutor to instruct them : That codding spirit had they from their mother , As sure a card as ever won the set ; That bloody mind , I think , they learn 'd of me , As true a dog as ever fought at head . Well , let my deeds be witness of my worth . I train 'd thy brethren to that guileful hole Where the dead corpse of Bassianus lay : I wrote the letter that thy father found And hid the gold within the letter mention 'd , Confederate with the queen and her two sons : And what not done , that thou hast cause to rue , Wherein I had no stroke of mischief in it ? I play 'd the cheater for thy father 's hand , And , when I had it , drew myself apart And almost broke my heart with extreme laughter : I pry 'd me through the crevice of a wall When , for his hand , he had his two sons ' heads ; Beheld his tears , and laugh 'd so heartily , That both mine eyes were rainy like to his : And when I told the empress of this sport , She swooned almost at my pleasing tale , And for my tidings gave me twenty kisses .
First Goth : What , canst thou say all this , and never blush ?
AARON : Ay , like a black dog , as the saying is .
LUCIUS : Art thou not sorry for these heinous deeds ?
