AARON : No more , great empress ; Bassianus comes : Be cross with him ; and I 'll go fetch thy sons To back thy quarrels , whatsoe 'er they be . Exit Enter BASSIANUS and LAVINIA
BASSIANUS : Who have we here ? Rome 's royal empress , Unfurnish 'd of her well-beseeming troop ? Or is it Dian , habited like her , Who hath abandoned her holy groves To see the general hunting in this forest ?
TAMORA : Saucy controller of our private steps ! Had I the power that some say Dian had , Thy temples should be planted presently With horns , as was Actaeon 's ; and the hounds Should drive upon thy new-transformed limbs , Unmannerly intruder as thou art !
LAVINIA : Under your patience , gentle empress , ' Tis thought you have a goodly gift in horning ; And to be doubted that your Moor and you Are singled forth to try experiments : Jove shield your husband from his hounds to-day ! ' Tis pity they should take him for a stag .
BASSIANUS : Believe me , queen , your swarth Cimmerian Doth make your honour of his body 's hue , Spotted , detested , and abominable . Why are you sequester 'd from all your train , Dismounted from your snow-white goodly steed . And wander 'd hither to an obscure plot , Accompanied but with a barbarous Moor , If foul desire had not conducted you ?
LAVINIA : And , being intercepted in your sport , Great reason that my noble lord be rated For sauciness . I pray you , let us hence , And let her joy her raven-colour 'd love ; This valley fits the purpose passing well .
BASSIANUS : The king my brother shall have note of this .
LAVINIA : Ay , for these slips have made him noted long : Good king , to be so mightily abused !
TAMORA : Why have I patience to endure all this ? Enter DEMETRIUS and CHIRON
DEMETRIUS : How now , dear sovereign , and our gracious mother ! Why doth your highness look so pale and wan ?
TAMORA : Have I not reason , think you , to look pale ? These two have ' ticed me hither to this place : A barren detested vale , you see it is ; The trees , though summer , yet forlorn and lean , O 'ercome with moss and baleful mistletoe : Here never shines the sun ; here nothing breeds , Unless the nightly owl or fatal raven : And when they show 'd me this abhorred pit , They told me , here , at dead time of the night , A thousand fiends , a thousand hissing snakes , Ten thousand swelling toads , as many urchins , Would make such fearful and confused cries As any mortal body hearing it Should straight fall mad , or else die suddenly . No sooner had they told this hellish tale , But straight they told me they would bind me here Unto the body of a dismal yew , And leave me to this miserable death : And then they call 'd me foul adulteress , Lascivious Goth , and all the bitterest terms That ever ear did hear to such effect : And , had you not by wondrous fortune come , This vengeance on me had they executed . Revenge it , as you love your mother 's life , Or be ye not henceforth call 'd my children .
DEMETRIUS : This is a witness that I am thy son . Stabs BASSIANUS
CHIRON : And this for me , struck home to show my strength . Also stabs BASSIANUS , who dies
LAVINIA : Ay , come , Semiramis , nay , barbarous Tamora , For no name fits thy nature but thy own !
TAMORA : Give me thy poniard ; you shall know , my boys Your mother 's hand shall right your mother 's wrong .
DEMETRIUS : Stay , madam ; here is more belongs to her ; First thrash the corn , then after burn the straw : This minion stood upon her chastity , Upon her nuptial vow , her loyalty , And with that painted hope braves your mightiness : And shall she carry this unto her grave ?
