LUCIUS : Speak , gentle sister , who hath martyr 'd thee ?
MARCUS ANDRONICUS : O , that delightful engine of her thoughts That blabb 'd them with such pleasing eloquence , Is torn from forth that pretty hollow cage , Where , like a sweet melodious bird , it sung Sweet varied notes , enchanting every ear !
LUCIUS : O , say thou for her , who hath done this deed ?
MARCUS ANDRONICUS : O , thus I found her , straying in the park , Seeking to hide herself , as doth the deer That hath received some unrecuring wound .
TITUS ANDRONICUS : It was my deer ; and he that wounded her Hath hurt me more than had he killed me dead : For now I stand as one upon a rock Environed with a wilderness of sea , Who marks the waxing tide grow wave by wave , Expecting ever when some envious surge Will in his brinish bowels swallow him . This way to death my wretched sons are gone ; Here stands my other son , a banished man , And here my brother , weeping at my woes . But that which gives my soul the greatest spurn , Is dear Lavinia , dearer than my soul . Had I but seen thy picture in this plight , It would have madded me : what shall I do Now I behold thy lively body so ? Thou hast no hands , to wipe away thy tears : Nor tongue , to tell me who hath martyr 'd thee : Thy husband he is dead : and for his death Thy brothers are condemn 'd , and dead by this . Look , Marcus ! ah , son Lucius , look on her ! When I did name her brothers , then fresh tears Stood on her cheeks , as doth the honey-dew Upon a gather 'd lily almost wither 'd .
MARCUS ANDRONICUS : Perchance she weeps because they kill 'd her husband ; Perchance because she knows them innocent .
TITUS ANDRONICUS : If they did kill thy husband , then be joyful Because the law hath ta 'en revenge on them . No , no , they would not do so foul a deed ; Witness the sorrow that their sister makes . Gentle Lavinia , let me kiss thy lips . Or make some sign how I may do thee ease : Shall thy good uncle , and thy brother Lucius , And thou , and I , sit round about some fountain , Looking all downwards to behold our cheeks How they are stain 'd , as meadows , yet not dry , With miry slime left on them by a flood ? And in the fountain shall we gaze so long Till the fresh taste be taken from that clearness , And made a brine-pit with our bitter tears ? Or shall we cut away our hands , like thine ? Or shall we bite our tongues , and in dumb shows Pass the remainder of our hateful days ? What shall we do ? let us , that have our tongues , Plot some deuce of further misery , To make us wonder 'd at in time to come .
LUCIUS : Sweet father , cease your tears ; for , at your grief , See how my wretched sister sobs and weeps .
MARCUS ANDRONICUS : Patience , dear niece . Good Titus , dry thine eyes .
TITUS ANDRONICUS : Ah , Marcus , Marcus ! brother , well I wot Thy napkin cannot drink a tear of mine , For thou , poor man , hast drown 'd it with thine own .
LUCIUS : Ah , my Lavinia , I will wipe thy cheeks .
TITUS ANDRONICUS : Mark , Marcus , mark ! I understand her signs : Had she a tongue to speak , now would she say That to her brother which I said to thee : His napkin , with his true tears all bewet , Can do no service on her sorrowful cheeks . O , what a sympathy of woe is this , As far from help as Limbo is from bliss ! Enter AARON
