Messenger : Worthy Andronicus , ill art thou repaid For that good hand thou sent 'st the emperor . Here are the heads of thy two noble sons ; And here 's thy hand , in scorn to thee sent back ; Thy griefs their sports , thy resolution mock 'd ; That woe is me to think upon thy woes More than remembrance of my father 's death . Exit
MARCUS ANDRONICUS : Now let hot AEtna cool in Sicily , And be my heart an ever-burning hell ! These miseries are more than may be borne . To weep with them that weep doth ease some deal ; But sorrow flouted at is double death .
LUCIUS : Ah , that this sight should make so deep a wound , And yet detested life not shrink thereat ! That ever death should let life bear his name , Where life hath no more interest but to breathe ! LAVINIA kisses TITUS
MARCUS ANDRONICUS : Alas , poor heart , that kiss is comfortless As frozen water to a starved snake .
TITUS ANDRONICUS : When will this fearful slumber have an end ?
MARCUS ANDRONICUS : Now , farewell , flattery : die , Andronicus ; Thou dost not slumber : see , thy two sons ' heads , Thy warlike hand , thy mangled daughter here : Thy other banish 'd son , with this dear sight Struck pale and bloodless ; and thy brother , I , Even like a stony image , cold and numb . Ah , now no more will I control thy griefs : Rend off thy silver hair , thy other hand Gnawing with thy teeth ; and be this dismal sight The closing up of our most wretched eyes ; Now is a time to storm ; why art thou still ?
TITUS ANDRONICUS : Ha , ha , ha !
MARCUS ANDRONICUS : Why dost thou laugh ? it fits not with this hour .
TITUS ANDRONICUS : Why , I have not another tear to shed : Besides , this sorrow is an enemy , And would usurp upon my watery eyes And make them blind with tributary tears : Then which way shall I find Revenge 's cave ? For these two heads do seem to speak to me , And threat me I shall never come to bliss Till all these mischiefs be return 'd again Even in their throats that have committed them . Come , let me see what task I have to do . You heavy people , circle me about , That I may turn me to each one of you , And swear unto my soul to right your wrongs . The vow is made . Come , brother , take a head ; And in this hand the other I will bear . Lavinia , thou shalt be employ 'd : these arms ! Bear thou my hand , sweet wench , between thy teeth . As for thee , boy , go get thee from my sight ; Thou art an exile , and thou must not stay : Hie to the Goths , and raise an army there : And , if you love me , as I think you do , Let 's kiss and part , for we have much to do .
LUCIUS : Farewell Andronicus , my noble father , The wofull 'st man that ever lived in Rome : Farewell , proud Rome ; till Lucius come again , He leaves his pledges dearer than his life : Farewell , Lavinia , my noble sister ; O , would thou wert as thou tofore hast been ! But now nor Lucius nor Lavinia lives But in oblivion and hateful griefs . If Lucius live , he will requite your wrongs ; And make proud Saturnine and his empress Beg at the gates , like Tarquin and his queen . Now will I to the Goths , and raise a power , To be revenged on Rome and Saturnine . Exit Enter TITUS , MARCUS , LAVINIA and Young LUCIUS , a boy
