LUCIUS : Thanks , gentle Romans : may I govern so , To heal Rome 's harms , and wipe away her woe ! But , gentle people , give me aim awhile , For nature puts me to a heavy task : Stand all aloof : but , uncle , draw you near , To shed obsequious tears upon this trunk . O , take this warm kiss on thy pale cold lips , Kissing TITUS These sorrowful drops upon thy blood-stain 'd face , The last true duties of thy noble son !
MARCUS ANDRONICUS : Tear for tear , and loving kiss for kiss , Thy brother Marcus tenders on thy lips : O were the sum of these that I should pay Countless and infinite , yet would I pay them !
LUCIUS : Come hither , boy ; come , come , and learn of us To melt in showers : thy grandsire loved thee well : Many a time he danced thee on his knee , Sung thee asleep , his loving breast thy pillow : Many a matter hath he told to thee , Meet and agreeing with thine infancy ; In that respect , then , like a loving child , Shed yet some small drops from thy tender spring , Because kind nature doth require it so : Friends should associate friends in grief and woe : Bid him farewell ; commit him to the grave ; Do him that kindness , and take leave of him .
Young LUCIUS : O grandsire , grandsire ! even with all my heart Would I were dead , so you did live again ! O Lord , I cannot speak to him for weeping ; My tears will choke me , if I ope my mouth . Re-enter Attendants with AARON
AEMILIUS : You sad Andronici , have done with woes : Give sentence on this execrable wretch , That hath been breeder of these dire events .
LUCIUS : Set him breast-deep in earth , and famish him ; There let him stand , and rave , and cry for food ; If any one relieves or pities him , For the offence he dies . This is our doom : Some stay to see him fasten 'd in the earth .
AARON : O , why should wrath be mute , and fury dumb ? I am no baby , I , that with base prayers I should repent the evils I have done : Ten thousand worse than ever yet I did Would I perform , if I might have my will ; If one good deed in all my life I did , I do repent it from my very soul .
