DEMETRIUS : What 's here ? A scroll ; and written round about ? Let 's see ; Reads ' Integer vitae , scelerisque purus , Non eget Mauri jaculis , nec arcu . ' 
CHIRON : O , ' tis a verse in Horace ; I know it well : I read it in the grammar long ago .
AARON : Ay , just ; a verse in Horace ; right , you have it . Aside Now , what a thing it is to be an ass ! Here 's no sound jest ! the old man hath found their guilt ; And sends them weapons wrapped about with lines , That wound , beyond their feeling , to the quick . But were our witty empress well afoot , She would applaud Andronicus ' conceit : But let her rest in her unrest awhile . And now , young lords , was 't not a happy star Led us to Rome , strangers , and more than so , Captives , to be advanced to this height ? It did me good , before the palace gate To brave the tribune in his brother 's hearing .
DEMETRIUS : But me more good , to see so great a lord Basely insinuate and send us gifts .
AARON : Had he not reason , Lord Demetrius ? Did you not use his daughter very friendly ?
DEMETRIUS : I would we had a thousand Roman dames At such a bay , by turn to serve our lust .
CHIRON : A charitable wish and full of love .
AARON : Here lacks but your mother for to say amen .
CHIRON : And that would she for twenty thousand more .
DEMETRIUS : Come , let us go ; and pray to all the gods For our beloved mother in her pains .
AARON : Pray to the devils ; the gods have given us over . Trumpets sound within
DEMETRIUS : Why do the emperor 's trumpets flourish thus ?
CHIRON : Belike , for joy the emperor hath a son .
DEMETRIUS : Soft ! who comes here ? Enter a Nurse , with a blackamoor Child in her arms
Nurse : Good morr ow , lords : O , tell me , did you see Aaron the Moor ?
AARON : Well , more or less , or ne 'er a whit at all , Here Aaron is ; and what with Aaron now ?
Nurse : O gentle Aaron , we are all undone ! Now help , or woe betide thee evermore !
AARON : Why , what a caterwauling dost thou keep ! What dost thou wrap and fumble in thine arms ?
Nurse : O , that which I would hide from heaven 's eye , Our empress ' shame , and stately Rome 's disgrace ! She is deliver 'd , lords ; she is deliver 'd .
AARON : To whom ?
Nurse : I mean , she is brought a-bed .
AARON : Well , God give her good rest ! What hath he sent her ?
Nurse : A devil .
AARON : Why , then she is the devil 's dam ; a joyful issue .
Nurse : A joyless , dismal , black , and sorrowful issue : Here is the babe , as loathsome as a toad Amongst the fairest breeders of our clime : The empress sends it thee , thy stamp , thy seal , And bids thee christen it with thy dagger 's point .
AARON : ' Zounds , ye whore ! is black so base a hue ? Sweet blowse , you are a beauteous blossom , sure .
DEMETRIUS : Villain , what hast thou done ?
AARON : That which thou canst not undo .
CHIRON : Thou hast undone our mother .
AARON : Villain , I have done thy mother .
DEMETRIUS : And therein , hellish dog , thou hast undone . Woe to her chance , and damn 'd her loathed choice ! Accursed the offspring of so foul a fiend !
CHIRON : It shall not live .
AARON : It shall not die .
Nurse : Aaron , it must ; the mother wills it so .
AARON : What , must it , nurse ? then let no man but I Do execution on my flesh and blood .
