TAMORA : But when ye have the honey ye desire , Let not this wasp outlive , us both to sting .
CHIRON : I warrant you , madam , we wil l make that sure . Come , mistress , now perforce we will enjoy That nice-preserved honesty of yours .
LAVINIA : O Tamora ! thou bear 'st a woman 's face , --
TAMORA : I will not hear her speak ; away with her !
LAVINIA : Sweet lords , entreat her hear me but a word .
DEMETRIUS : Listen , fair madam : let it be your glory To see her tears ; but be your heart to them As unrelenting flint to drops of rain .
LAVINIA : When did the tiger 's young ones teach the dam ? O , do not learn her wrath ; she taught it thee ; The milk thou suck 'dst from her did turn to marble ; Even at thy teat thou hadst thy tyranny . Yet every mother breeds not sons alike : To CHIRON Do thou entreat her show a woman pity .
CHIRON : What , wouldst thou have me prove myself a bastard ?
LAVINIA : ' Tis true ; the raven doth not hatch a lark : Yet have I heard , --O , could I find it now ! -- The lion moved with pity did endure To have his princely paws pared all away : Some say that ravens foster forlorn children , The whilst their own birds famish in their nests : O , be to me , though thy hard heart say no , Nothing so kind , but something pitiful !
TAMORA : I know not what it means ; away with her !
LAVINIA : O , let me teach thee ! for my father 's sake , That gave thee life , when well he might have slain thee , Be not obdurate , open thy deaf ears .
TAMORA : Hadst thou in person ne 'er offended me , Even for his sake am I pitiless . Remember , boys , I pour 'd forth tears in vain , To save your brother from the sacrifice ; But fierce Andronicus would not relent ; Therefore , away with her , and use her as you will , The worse to her , the better loved of me .
LAVINIA : O Tamora , be call 'd a gentle queen , And with thine own hands kill me in this place ! For ' tis not life that I have begg 'd so long ; Poor I was slain when Bassianus died .
TAMORA : What begg 'st thou , then ? fond woman , let me go .
LAVINIA : ' Tis present death I beg ; and one thing more That womanhood denies my tongue to tell : O , keep me from their worse than killing lust , And tumble me into some loathsome pit , Where never man 's eye may behold my body : Do this , and be a charitable murderer .
TAMORA : So should I rob my sweet sons of their fee : No , let them satisfy their lust on thee .
DEMETRIUS : Away ! for thou hast stay 'd us here too long .
LAVINIA : No grace ? no womanhood ? Ah , beastly creature ! The blot and enemy to our general name ! Confusion fall--
CHIRON : Nay , then I 'll stop your mouth . Bring thou her husband : This is the hole where Aaron bid us hide him . DEMETRIUS throws the body of BASSIANUS into the pit ; then exeunt DEMETRIUS and CHIRON , dragging off LAVINIA
TAMORA : Farewell , my sons : see that you make her sure . Ne 'er let my heart know merry cheer indeed , Till all the Andronici be made away . Now will I hence to seek my lovely Moor , And let my spleenful sons this trull deflow 'r . Exit Re-enter AARON , with QUINTUS and MARTIUS
AARON : Come on , my lords , the better foot before : Straight will I bring you to the loathsome pit Where I espied the panther fast asleep .
QUINTUS : My sight is very dull , whate 'er it bodes .
MARTIUS : And mine , I promise you ; were 't not for shame , Well could I leave our sport to sleep awhile . Falls into the pit
