CHIRON : Aaron , I see thou wilt not trust the air With secrets .
DEMETRIUS : For this care of Tamora , Herself and hers are highly bound to thee .
AARON : Now to the Goths , as swift as swallow flies ; There to dispose this treasure in mine arms , And secretly to greet the empress ' friends . Come on , you thick lipp 'd slave , I 'll bear you hence ; For it is you that puts us to our shifts : I 'll make you feed on berries and on roots , And feed on curds and whey , and suck the goat , And cabin in a cave , and bring you up To be a warrior , and command a camp . Exit Enter TITUS , bearing arrows with letters at the ends of them ; with him , MARCUS , Young LUCIUS , PUBLIUS , SEMPRONIUS , CAIUS , and other Gentlemen , with bows
TITUS ANDRONICUS : Come , Marcus ; come , kinsmen ; this is the way . Sir boy , now let me see your archery ; Look ye draw home enough , and ' tis there straight . Terras Astraea reliquit : Be you remember 'd , Marcus , she 's gone , she 's fled . Sirs , take you to your tools . You , cousins , shall Go sound the ocean , and cast your nets ; Happily you may catch her in the sea ; Yet there 's as little justice as at land : No ; Publius and Sempronius , you must do it ; ' Tis you must dig with mattock and with spade , And pierce the inmost centre of the earth : Then , when you come to Pluto 's region , I pray you , deliver him this petition ; Tell him , it is for justice and for aid , And that it comes from old Andronicus , Shaken with sorrows in ungrateful Rome . Ah , Rome ! Well , well ; I made thee miserable What time I threw the people 's suffrages On him that thus doth tyrannize o 'er me . Go , get you gone ; and pray be careful all , And leave you not a man-of-war unsearch 'd : This wicked emperor may have shipp 'd her hence ; And , kinsmen , then we may go pipe for justice .
MARCUS ANDRONICUS : O Publius , is not this a heavy case , To see thy noble uncle thus distract ?
PUBLIUS : Therefore , my lord , it highly us concerns By day and night to attend him carefully , And feed his humour kindly as we may , Till time beget some careful remedy .
MARCUS ANDRONICUS : Kinsmen , his sorrows are past remedy . Join with the Goths ; and with revengeful war Take wreak on Rome for this ingratitude , And vengeance on the traitor Saturnine .
TITUS ANDRONICUS : Publius , how now ! how now , my masters ! What , have you met with her ?
PUBLIUS : No , my good lord ; but Pluto sends you word , If you will have Revenge from hell , you shall : Marry , for Justice , she is so employ 'd , He thinks , with Jove in heaven , or somewhere else , So that perforce you must needs stay a time .
