Second Murderer : I am one , my liege , Whom the vile blows and buffets of the world Have so incensed that I am reckless what I do to spite the world .
First Murderer : And I another So weary with disasters , tugg 'd with fortune , That I would set my lie on any chance , To mend it , or be rid on 't .
MACBETH : Both of you Know Banquo was your enemy .
Both Murderers : True , my lord .
MACBETH : So is he mine ; and in such bloody distance , That every minute of his being thrusts Against my near 'st of life : and though I could With barefaced power sweep him from my sight And bid my will avouch it , yet I must not , For certain friends that are both his and mine , Whose loves I may not drop , but wail his fall Who I myself struck down ; and thence it is , That I to your assistance do make love , Masking the business from the common eye For sundry weighty reasons .
Second Murderer : We shall , my lord , Perform what you command us .
First Murderer : Though our lives--
MACBETH : Your spirits shine through you . Within this hour at most I will advise you where to plant yourselves ; Acquaint you with the perfect spy o ' the time , The moment on 't ; for 't must be done to-night , And something from the palace ; always thought That I require a clearness : and with him-- To leave no rubs nor botches in the work-- Fleance his son , that keeps him company , Whose absence is no less material to me Than is his father 's , must embrace the fate Of that dark hour . Resolve yourselves apart : I 'll come to you anon .
Both Murderers : We are resolved , my lord .
MACBETH : I 'll call upon you straight : abide within . It is concluded . Banquo , thy soul 's flight , If it find heaven , must find it out to-night . Exit Enter LADY MACBETH and a Servant
LADY MACBETH : Is Banquo gone from court ?
Servant : Ay , madam , but returns again to-night .
LADY MACBETH : Say to the king , I would attend his leisure For a few words .
Servant : Madam , I will . Exit
LADY MACBETH : Nought 's had , all 's spent , Where our desire is got without content : ' Tis safer to be that which we destroy Than by destruction dwell in doubtful joy . Enter MACBETH How now , my lord ! why do you keep alone , Of sorriest fancies your companions making , Using those thoughts which should indeed have died With them they think on ? Things without all remedy Should be without regard : what 's done is done .
MACBETH : We have scotch 'd the snake , not kill 'd it : She 'll close and be herself , whilst our poor malice Remains in danger of her former tooth . But let the frame of things disjoint , both the worlds suffer , Ere we will eat our meal in fear and sleep In the affliction of these terrible dreams That shake us nightly : better be with the dead , Whom we , to gain our peace , have sent to peace , Than on the torture of the mind to lie In restless ecstasy . Duncan is in his grave ; After life 's fitful fever he sleeps well ; Treason has done his worst : nor steel , nor poison , Malice domestic , foreign levy , nothing , Can touch him further .
LADY MACBETH : Come on ; Gentle my lord , sleek o 'er your rugged looks ; Be bright and jovial among your guests to-night .
MACBETH : So shall I , love ; and so , I pray , be you : Let your remembrance apply to Banquo ; Present him eminence , both with eye and tongue : Unsafe the while , that we Must lave our honours in these flattering streams , And make our faces vizards to our hearts , Disguising what they are .
LADY MACBETH : You must leave this .
