First Witch : Come , let 's make haste ; she 'll soon be back again . Enter LENNOX and another Lord
LENNOX : My former speeches have but hit your thoughts , Which can interpret further : only , I say , Things have been strangely borne . The gracious Duncan Was pitied of Macbeth : marry , he was dead : And the right-valiant Banquo walk 'd too late ; Whom , you may say , if 't please you , Fleance kill 'd , For Fleance fled : men must not walk too late . Who cannot want the thought how monstrous It was for Malcolm and for Donalbain To kill their gracious father ? damned fact ! How it did grieve Macbeth ! did he not straight In pious rage the two delinquents tear , That were the slaves of drink and thralls of sleep ? Was not that nobly done ? Ay , and wisely too ; For ' twould have anger 'd any heart alive To hear the men deny 't . So that , I say , He has borne all things well : and I do think That had he Duncan 's sons under his key-- As , an 't please heaven , he shall not--they should find What ' twere to kill a father ; so should Fleance . But , peace ! for from broad words and ' cause he fail 'd His presence at the tyrant 's feast , I hear Macduff lives in disgrace : sir , can you tell Where he bestows himself ?
Lord : The son of Duncan , From whom this tyrant holds the due of birth Lives in the English court , and is received Of the most pious Edward with such grace That the malevolence of fortune nothing Takes from his high respect : thither Macduff Is gone to pray the holy king , upon his aid To wake Northumberland and warlike Siward : That , by the help of these--with Him above To ratify the work--we may again Give to our tables meat , sleep to our nights , Free from our feasts and banquets bloody knives , Do faithful homage and receive free honours : All which we pine for now : and this report Hath so exasperate the king that he Prepares for some attempt of war .
LENNOX : Sent he to Macduff ?
Lord : He did : and with an absolute ' Sir , not I , ' The cloudy messenger turns me his back , And hums , as who should say ' You 'll rue the time That clogs me with this answer . ' 
LENNOX : And that well might Advise him to a caution , to hold what distance His wisdom can provide . Some holy angel Fly to the court of England and unfold His message ere he come , that a swift blessing May soon return to this our suffering country Under a hand accursed !
Lord : I 'll send my prayers with him . Thunder . Enter the three Witches
First Witch : Thrice the brinded cat hath mew 'd .
Second Witch : Thrice and once the hedge-pig whined .
Third Witch : Harpier cries ' Tis time , ' tis time .
First Witch : Round about the cauldron go ; In the poison 'd entrails throw . Toad , that under cold stone Days and nights has thirty-one Swelter 'd venom sleeping got , Boil thou first i ' the charmed pot .
ALL : Double , double toil and trouble ; Fire burn , and cauldron bubble .
Second Witch : Fillet of a fenny snake , In the cauldron boil and bake ; Eye of newt and toe of frog , Wool of bat and tongue of dog , Adder 's fork and blind-worm 's sting , Lizard 's leg and owlet 's wing , For a charm of powerful trouble , Like a hell-broth boil and bubble .
ALL : Double , double toil and trouble ; Fire burn and cauldron bubble .
