LADY MACDUFF : Father 'd he is , and yet he 's fatherless .
ROSS : I am so much a fool , should I stay longer , It would be my disgrace and your discomfort : I take my leave at once . Exit
LADY MACDUFF : Sirrah , your father 's dead ; And what will you do now ? How will you live ?
Son : As birds do , mother .
LADY MACDUFF : What , with worms and flies ?
Son : With what I get , I mean ; and so do they .
LADY MACDUFF : Poor bird ! thou 'ldst never fear the net nor lime , The pitfall nor the gin .
Son : Why should I , mother ? Poor birds they are not set for . My father is not dead , for all your saying .
LADY MACDUFF : Yes , he is dead ; how wilt thou do for a father ?
Son : Nay , how will you do for a husband ?
LADY MACDUFF : Why , I can buy me twenty at any market .
Son : Then you 'll buy ' em to sell again .
LADY MACDUFF : Thou speak 'st with all thy wit : and yet , i ' faith , With wit enough for thee .
Son : Was my father a traitor , mother ?
LADY MACDUFF : Ay , that he was .
Son : What is a traitor ?
LADY MACDUFF : Why , one that swears and lies .
Son : And be all traitors that do so ?
LADY MACDUFF : Every one that does so is a traitor , and must be hanged .
Son : And must they all be hanged that swear and lie ?
LADY MACDUFF : Every one .
Son : Who must hang them ?
LADY MACDUFF : Why , the honest men .
Son : Then the liars and swearers are fools , for there are liars and swearers enow to beat the honest men and hang up them .
LADY MACDUFF : Now , God help thee , poor monkey ! But how wilt thou do for a father ?
Son : If he were dead , you 'ld weep for him : if you would not , it were a good sign that I should quickly have a new father .
LADY MACDUFF : Poor prattler , how thou talk 'st ! Enter a Messenger
Messenger : Bless you , fair dame ! I am not to you known , Though in your state of honour I am perfect . I doubt some danger does approach you nearly : If you will take a homely man 's advice , Be not found here ; hence , with your little ones . To fright you thus , methinks , I am too savage ; To do worse to you were fell cruelty , Which is too nigh your person . Heaven preserve you ! I dare abide no longer . Exit
LADY MACDUFF : Whither should I fly ? I have done no harm . But I remember now I am in this earthly world ; where to do harm Is often laudable , to do good sometime Accounted dangerous folly : why then , alas , Do I put up that womanly defence , To say I have done no harm ? Enter Murderers What are these faces ?
First Murderer : Where is your husband ?
LADY MACDUFF : I hope , in no place so unsanctified Where such as thou mayst find him .
First Murderer : He 's a traitor .
Son : Thou liest , thou shag-hair 'd villain !
First Murderer : What , you egg ! Stabbing him Young fry of treachery !
Son : He has kill 'd me , mother : Run away , I pray you ! Dies Enter MALCOLM and MACDUFF
MALCOLM : Let us seek out some desolate shade , and there Weep our sad bosoms empty .
MACDUFF : Let us rather Hold fast the mortal sword , and like good men Bestride our down-fall 'n birthdom : each new morn New widows howl , new orphans cry , new sorrows Strike heaven on the face , that it resounds As if it felt with Scotland and yell 'd out Like syllable of dolour .
