Messenger : The king comes here to-night .
LADY MACBETH : Thou 'rt mad to say it : Is not thy master with him ? who , were 't so , Would have inform 'd for preparation .
Messenger : So please you , it is true : our thane is coming : One of my fellows had the speed of him , Who , almost dead for breath , had scarcely more Than would make up his message .
LADY MACBETH : Give him tending ; He brings great news . Exit Messenger The raven himself is hoarse That croaks the fatal entrance of Duncan Under my battlements . Come , you spirits That tend on mortal thoughts , unsex me here , And fill me from the crown to the toe top-full Of direst cruelty ! make thick my blood ; Stop up the access and passage to remorse , That no compunctious visitings of nature Shake my fell purpose , nor keep peace between The effect and it ! Come to my woman 's breasts , And take my milk for gall , you murdering ministers , Wherever in your sightless substances You wait on nature 's mischief ! Come , thick night , And pall thee in the dunnest smoke of hell , That my keen knife see not the wound it makes , Nor heaven peep through the blanket of the dark , To cry ' Hold , hold ! ' Enter MACBETH Great Glamis ! worthy Cawdor ! Greater than both , by the all-hail hereafter ! Thy letters have transported me beyond This ignorant present , and I feel now The future in the instant .
MACBETH : My dearest love , Duncan comes here to-night .
LADY MACBETH : And when goes hence ?
MACBETH : To-morrow , as he purposes .
LADY MACBETH : O , never Shall sun that morrow see ! Your face , my thane , is as a book where men May read strange matters . To beguile the time , Look like the time ; bear welcome in your eye , Your hand , your tongue : look like the innocent flower , But be the serpent under 't . He that 's coming Must be provided for : and you shall put This night 's great business into my dispatch ; Which shall to all our nights and days to come Give solely sovereign sway and masterdom .
MACBETH : We will speak further .
LADY MACBETH : Only look up clear ; To alter favour ever is to fear : Leave all the rest to me . Hautboys and torches . Enter DUNCAN , MALCOLM , DONALBAIN , BANQUO , LENNOX , MACDUFF , ROSS , ANGUS , and Attendants
DUNCAN : This castle hath a pleasant seat ; the air Nimbly and sweetly recommends itself Unto our gentle senses .
BANQUO : This guest of summer , The temple-haunting martlet , does approve , By his loved mansionry , that the heaven 's breath Smells wooingly here : no jutty , frieze , Buttress , nor coign of vantage , but this bird Hath made his pendent bed and procreant cradle : Where they most breed and haunt , I have observed , The air is delicate . Enter LADY MACBETH
DUNCAN : See , see , our honour 'd hostess ! The love that follows us sometime is our trouble , Which still we thank as love . Herein I teach you How you shall bid God ' ild us for your pains , And thank us for your trouble .
LADY MACBETH : All our service In every point twice done and then done double Were poor and single business to contend Against those honours deep and broad wherewith Your majesty loads our house : for those of old , And the late dignities heap 'd up to them , We rest your hermits .
DUNCAN : Where 's the thane of Cawdor ? We coursed him at the heels , and had a purpose To be his purveyor : but he rides well ; And his great love , sharp as his spur , hath holp him To his home before us . Fair and noble hostess , We are your guest to-night .
LADY MACBETH : Your servants ever Have theirs , themselves and what is theirs , in compt , To make their audit at your highness ' pleasure , Still to return your own .
