LADY MACBETH : But in them nature 's copy 's not eterne .
MACBETH : There 's comfort yet ; they are assailable ; Then be thou jocund : ere the bat hath flown His cloister 'd flight , ere to black Hecate 's summons The shard-borne beetle with his drowsy hums Hath rung night 's yawning peal , there shall be done A deed of dreadful note .
LADY MACBETH : What 's to be done ?
MACBETH : Be innocent of the knowledge , dearest chuck , Till thou applaud the deed . Come , seeling night , Scarf up the tender eye of pitiful day ; And with thy bloody and invisible hand Cancel and tear to pieces that great bond Which keeps me pale ! Light thickens ; and the crow Makes wing to the rooky wood : Good things of day begin to droop and drowse ; While night 's black agents to their preys do rouse . Thou marvell 'st at my words : but hold thee still ; Things bad begun make strong themselves by ill . So , prithee , go with me . Enter three Murderers
First Murderer : But who did bid thee join with us ?
Third Murderer : Macbeth .
Second Murderer : He needs not our mistrust , since he delivers Our offices and what we have to do To the direction just .
First Murderer : Then stand with us . The west yet glimmers with some streaks of day : Now spurs the lated traveller apace To gain the timely inn ; and near approaches The subject of our watch .
Third Murderer : Hark ! I hear horses .
BANQUO : Give us a light there , ho !
Second Murderer : Then ' tis he : the rest That are within the note of expectation Already are i ' the court .
First Murderer : His horses go about .
Third Murderer : Almost a mile : but he does usually , So all men do , from hence to the palace gate Make it their walk .
Second Murderer : A light , a light ! Enter BANQUO , and FLEANCE with a torch
Third Murderer : ' Tis he .
First Murderer : Stand to 't .
BANQUO : It will be rain to-night .
First Murderer : Let it come down . They set upon BANQUO
BANQUO : O , treachery ! Fly , good Fleance , fly , fly , fly ! Thou mayst revenge . O slave ! Dies . FLEANCE escapes
Third Murderer : Who did strike out the light ?
First Murderer : Wast not the way ?
Third Murderer : There 's but one down ; the son is fled .
Second Murderer : We have lost Best half of our affair .
First Murderer : Well , let 's away , and say how much is done . A banquet prepared . Enter MACBETH , LADY MACBETH , ROSS , LENNOX , Lords , and Attendants
MACBETH : You know your own degrees ; sit down : at first And last the hearty welcome .
Lords : Thanks to your majesty .
MACBETH : Ourself will mingle with society , And play the humble host . Our hostess keeps her state , but in best time We will require her welcome .
LADY MACBETH : Pronounce it for me , sir , to all our friends ; For my heart speaks they are welcome . First Murderer appears at the door
MACBETH : See , they encounter thee with their hearts ' thanks . Both sides are even : here I 'll sit i ' the midst : Be large in mirth ; anon we 'll drink a measure The table round . Approaching the door There 's blood on thy face .
First Murderer : ' Tis Banquo 's then .
MACBETH : ' Tis better thee without than he within . Is he dispatch 'd ?
First Murderer : My lord , his throat is cut ; that I did for him .
MACBETH : Thou art the best o ' the cut-throats : yet he 's good That did the like for Fleance : if thou didst it , Thou art the nonpareil .
First Murderer : Most royal sir , Fleance is ' scaped .
