MACBETH : What is ' t you say ? the life ?
LENNOX : Mean you his majesty ?
MACDUFF : Approach the chamber , and destroy your sight With a new Gorgon : do not bid me speak ; See , and then speak yourselves . Awake , awake ! Ring the alarum-bell . Murder and treason ! Banquo and Donalbain ! Malcolm ! awake ! Shake off this downy sleep , death 's counterfeit , And look on death itself ! up , up , and see The great doom 's image ! Malcolm ! Banquo ! As from your graves rise up , and walk like sprites , To countenance this horror ! Ring the bell . Bell rings Enter LADY MACBETH
LADY MACBETH : What 's the business , That such a hideous trumpet calls to parley The sleepers of the house ? speak , speak !
MACDUFF : O gentle lady , ' Tis not for you to hear what I can speak : The repetition , in a woman 's ear , Would murder as it fell . Enter BANQUO O Banquo , Banquo , Our royal master ' s murder 'd !
LADY MACBETH : Woe , alas ! What , in our house ?
BANQUO : Too cruel any where . Dear Duff , I prithee , contradict thyself , And say it is not so . Re-enter MACBETH and LENNOX , with ROSS
MACBETH : Had I but died an hour before this chance , I had lived a blessed time ; for , from this instant , There ' s nothing serious in mortality : All is but toys : renown and grace is dead ; The wine of life is drawn , and the mere lees Is left this vault to brag of . Enter MALCOLM and DONALBAIN
DONALBAIN : What is amiss ?
MACBETH : You are , and do not know 't : The spring , the head , the fountain of your blood Is stopp 'd ; the very source of it is stopp 'd .
MACDUFF : Your royal father ' s murder 'd .
MALCOLM : O , by whom ?
LENNOX : Those of his chamber , as it seem 'd , had done ' t : Their hands and faces were an badged with blood ; So were their daggers , which unwiped we found Upon their pillows : They stared , and were distracted ; no man 's life Was to be trusted with them .
MACBETH : O , yet I do repent me of my fury , That I did kill them .
MACDUFF : Wherefore did you so ?
MACBETH : Who can be wise , amazed , temperate and furious , Loyal and neutral , in a moment ? No man : The expedition my violent love Outrun the pauser , reason . Here lay Duncan , His silver skin laced with his golden blood ; And his gash 'd stabs look 'd like a breach in nature For ruin 's wasteful entrance : there , the murderers , Steep 'd in the colours of their trade , their daggers Unmannerly breech 'd with gore : who could refrain , That had a heart to love , and in that heart Courage to make ' s love kno wn ?
LADY MACBETH : Help me hence , ho !
MACDUFF : Look to the lady .
MALCOLM : Why do we hold our tongues , That most may claim this argument for ours ?
DONALBAIN : What should be spoken here , where our fate , Hid in an auger-hole , may rush , and seize us ? Let ' s away ; Our tears are not yet brew 'd .
MALCOLM : Nor our strong sorrow Upon the foot of motion .
BANQUO : Look to the lady : LADY MACBETH is carried out And when we have our naked frailties hid , That suffer in exposure , let us meet , And question this most bloody piece of work , To know it further . Fears and scruples shake us : In the great hand of God I stand ; and thence Against the undivulged pretence I fight Of treasonous malice .
MACDUFF : And so do I.
ALL : So all .
MACBETH : Let 's briefly put on manly readiness , And meet i ' the hall together .
ALL : Well contented .
