MACDUFF : O Scotland , Scotland !
MALCOLM : If such a one be fit to govern , speak : I am as I have spoken .
MACDUFF : Fit to govern ! No , not to live . O nation miserable , With an untitled tyrant bloody-scepter 'd , When shalt thou see thy wholesome days again , Since that the truest issue of thy throne By his own interdiction stands accursed , And does blaspheme his breed ? Thy royal father Was a most sainted king : the queen that bore thee , Oftener upon her knees than on her feet , Died every day she lived . Fare thee well ! These evils thou repeat 'st upon thyself Have banish 'd me from Scotland . O my breast , Thy hope ends here !
MALCOLM : Macduff , this noble passion , Child of integrity , hath from my soul Wiped the black scruples , reconciled my thoughts To thy good truth and honour . Devilish Macbeth By many of these trains hath sought to win me Into his power , and modest wisdom plucks me From over-credulous haste : but God above Deal between thee and me ! for even now I put myself to thy direction , and Unspeak mine own detraction , here abjure The taints and blames I laid upon myself , For strangers to my nature . I am yet Unknown to woman , never was forsworn , Scarcely have coveted what was mine own , At no time broke my faith , would not betray The devil to his fellow and delight No less in truth than life : my first false speaking Was this upon myself : what I am truly , Is thine and my poor country 's to command : Whither indeed , before thy here-approach , Old Siward , with ten thousand warlike men , Already at a point , was setting forth . Now we 'll together ; and the chance of goodness Be like our warranted quarrel ! Why are you silent ?
MACDUFF : Such welcome and unwelcome things at once ' Tis hard to reconcile . Enter a Doctor
MALCOLM : Well ; more anon.--Comes the king forth , I pray you ?
Doctor : Ay , sir ; there are a crew of wretched souls That stay his cure : their malady convinces The great assay of art ; but at his touch-- Such sanctity hath heaven given his hand-- They presently amend .
MALCOLM : I thank you , doctor . Exit Doctor
MACDUFF : What 's the disease he means ?
MALCOLM : ' Tis call 'd the evil : A most miraculous work in this good king ; Which often , since my here-remain in England , I have seen him do . How he solicits heaven , Himself best knows : but strangely-visited people , All swoln and ulcerous , pitiful to the eye , The mere despair of surgery , he cures , Hanging a golden stamp about their necks , Put on with holy prayers : and ' tis spoken , To the succeeding royalty he leaves The healing benediction . With this strange virtue , He hath a heavenly gift of prophecy , And sundry blessings hang about his throne , That speak him full of grace . Enter ROSS
MACDUFF : See , who comes here ?
MALCOLM : My countryman ; but yet I know him not .
MACDUFF : My ever-gentle cousin , welcome hither .
MALCOLM : I know him now . Good God , betimes remove The means that makes us strangers !
ROSS : Sir , amen .
MACDUFF : Stands Scotland where it did ?
ROSS : Alas , poor country ! Almost afraid to know itself . It cannot Be call 'd our mother , but our grave ; where nothing , But who knows nothing , is once seen to smile ; Where sighs and groans and shrieks that rend the air Are made , not mark 'd ; where violent sorrow seems A modern ecstasy ; the dead man 's knell Is there scarce ask 'd for who ; and good men 's lives Expire before the flowers in their caps , Dying or ere they sicken .
MACDUFF : O , relation Too nice , and yet too true !
MALCOLM : What 's the newest grief ?
ROSS : That of an hour 's age doth hiss the speaker : Each minute teems a new one .
