First Witch : Show !
Second Witch : Show !
Third Witch : Show !
ALL : Show his eyes , and grieve his heart ; Come like shadows , so depart ! A show of Eight Kings , the last with a glass in his hand ; GHOST OF BANQUO following
MACBETH : Thou art too like the spirit of Banquo : down ! Thy crown does sear mine eye-balls . And thy hair , Thou other gold-bound brow , is like the first . A third is like the former . Filthy hags ! Why do you show me this ? A fourth ! Start , eyes ! What , will the line stretch out to the crack of doom ? Another yet ! A seventh ! I 'll see no more : And yet the eighth appears , who bears a glass Which shows me many more ; and some I see That two-fold balls and treble scepters carry : Horrible sight ! Now , I see , ' tis true ; For the blood-bolter 'd Banquo smiles upon me , And points at them for his . Apparitions vanish What , is this so ?
First Witch : Ay , sir , all this is so : but why Stands Macbeth thus amazedly ? Come , sisters , cheer we up his sprites , And show the best of our delights : I 'll charm the air to give a sound , While you perform your antic round : That this great king may kindly say , Our duties did his welcome pay . Music . The witches dance and then vanish , with HECATE
MACBETH : Where are they ? Gone ? Let this pernicious hour Stand aye accursed in the calendar ! Come in , without there ! Enter LENNOX
LENNOX : What 's your grace 's will ?
MACBETH : Saw you the weird sisters ?
LENNOX : No , my lord .
MACBETH : Came they not by you ?
LENNOX : No , indeed , my lord .
MACBETH : Infected be the air whereon they ride ; And damn 'd all those that trust them ! I did hear The galloping of horse : who was 't came by ?
LENNOX : ' Tis two or three , my lord , that bring you word Macduff is fled to England .
MACBETH : Fled to England !
LENNOX : Ay , my good lord .
MACBETH : Time , thou anticipatest my dread exploits : The flighty purpose never is o 'ertook Unless the deed go with it ; from this moment The very firstlings of my heart shall be The firstlings of my hand . And even now , To crown my thoughts with acts , be it thought and done : The castle of Macduff I will surprise ; Seize upon Fife ; give to the edge o ' the sword His wife , his babes , and all unfortunate souls That trace him in his line . No boasting like a fool ; This deed I 'll do before this purpose cool . But no more sights ! --Where are these gentlemen ? Come , bring me where they are . Enter LADY MACDUFF , her Son , and ROSS
LADY MACDUFF : What had he done , to make him fly the land ?
ROSS : You must have patience , madam .
LADY MACDUFF : He had none : His flight was madness : when our actions do not , Our fears do make us traitors .
ROSS : You know not Whether it was his wisdom or his fear .
LADY MACDUFF : Wisdom ! to leave his wife , to leave his babes , His mansion and his titles in a place From whence himself does fly ? He loves us not ; He wants the natural touch : for the poor wren , The most diminutive of birds , will fight , Her young ones in her nest , against the owl . All is the fear and nothing is the love ; As little is the wisdom , where the flight So runs against all reason .
