First Murderer : Ay , my good lord : safe in a ditch he bides , With twenty trenched gashes on his head ; The least a death to nature .
MACBETH : Thanks for that : There the grown serpent lies ; the worm that 's fled Hath nature that in time will venom breed , No teeth for the present . Get thee gone : to-morrow We 'll hear , ourselves , again . Exit Murderer
LADY MACBETH : My royal lord , You do not give the cheer : the feast is sold That is not often vouch 'd , while ' tis a-making , ' Tis given with welcome : to feed were best at home ; From thence the sauce to meat is ceremony ; Meeting were bare without it .
MACBETH : Sweet remembrancer ! Now , good digestion wait on appetite , And health on both !
LENNOX : May 't please your highness sit . The GHOST OF BANQUO enters , and sits in MACBETH 's place
MACBETH : Here had we now our country 's honour roof 'd , Were the graced person of our Banquo present ; Who may I rather challenge for unkindness Than pity for mischance !
ROSS : His absence , sir , Lays blame upon his promise . Please 't your highness To grace us with your royal company .
MACBETH : The table 's full .
LENNOX : Here is a place reserved , sir .
MACBETH : Where ?
LENNOX : Here , my good lord . What is 't that moves your highness ?
MACBETH : Which of you have done this ?
Lords : What , my good lord ?
MACBETH : Thou canst not say I did it : never shake Thy gory locks at me .
ROSS : Gentlemen , rise : his highness is not well .
LADY MACBETH : Sit , worthy friends : my lord is often thus , And hath been from his youth : pray you , keep seat ; The fit is momentary ; upon a thought He will again be well : if much you note him , You shall offend him and extend his passion : Feed , and regard him not . Are you a man ?
MACBETH : Ay , and a bold one , that dare look on that Which might appal the devil .
LADY MACBETH : O proper stuff ! This is the very painting of your fear : This is the air-drawn dagger which , you said , Led you to Duncan . O , these flaws and starts , Impostors to true fear , would well become A woman 's story at a winter 's fire , Authorized by her grandam . Shame itself ! Why do you make such faces ? When all 's done , You look but on a stool .
MACBETH : Prithee , see there ! behold ! look ! lo ! how say you ? Why , what care I ? If thou canst nod , speak too . If charnel-houses and our graves must send Those that we bury back , our monuments Shall be the maws of kites . GHOST OF BANQUO vanishes
LADY MACBETH : What , quite unmann 'd in folly ?
MACBETH : If I stand here , I saw him .
LADY MACBETH : Fie , for shame !
MACBETH : Blood hath been shed ere now , i ' the olden time , Ere human statute purged the gentle weal ; Ay , and since too , murders have been perform 'd Too terrible for the ear : the times have been , That , when the brains were out , the man would die , And there an end ; but now they rise again , With twenty mortal murders on their crowns , And push us from our stools : this is more strange Than such a murder is .
LADY MACBETH : My worthy lord , Your noble friends do lack you .
