Lords : Our duties , and the pledge . Re-enter GHOST OF BANQUO
MACBETH : Avaunt ! and quit my sight ! let the earth hide thee ! Thy bones are marrowless , thy blood is cold ; Thou hast no speculation in those eyes Which thou dost glare with !
LADY MACBETH : Think of this , good peers , But as a thing of custom : ' tis no other ; Only it spoils the pleasure of the time .
MACBETH : What man dare , I dare : Approach thou like the rugged Russian bear , The arm 'd rhinoceros , or the Hyrcan tiger ; Take any shape but that , and my firm nerves Shall never tremble : or be alive again , And dare me to the desert with thy sword ; If trembling I inhabit then , protest me The baby of a girl . Hence , horrible shadow ! Unreal mockery , hence ! GHOST OF BANQUO vanishes Why , so : being gone , I am a man again . Pray you , sit still .
LADY MACBETH : You have displaced the mirth , broke the good meeting , With most admired disorder .
MACBETH : Can such things be , And overcome us like a summer 's cloud , Without our special wonder ? You make me strange Even to the disposition that I owe , When now I think you can behold such sights , And keep the natural ruby of your cheeks , When mine is blanched with fear .
ROSS : What sights , my lord ?
LADY MACBETH : I pray you , speak not ; he grows worse and worse ; Question enrages him . At once , good night : Stand not upon the order of your going , But go at once .
LENNOX : Good night ; and better health Attend his majesty !
LADY MACBETH : A kind good night to all !
MACBETH : It will have blood ; they say , blood will have blood : Stones have been known to move and trees to speak ; Augurs and understood relations have By magot-pies and choughs and rooks brought forth The secret 'st man of blood . What is the night ?
LADY MACBETH : Almost at odds with morning , which is which .
MACBETH : How say 'st thou , that Macduff denies his person At our great bidding ?
LADY MACBETH : Did you send to him , sir ?
MACBETH : I hear it by the way ; but I will send : There 's not a one of them but in his house I keep a servant fee 'd . I will to-morrow , And betimes I will , to the weird sisters : More shall they speak ; for now I am bent to know , By the worst means , the worst . For mine own good , All causes shall give way : I am in blood Stepp 'd in so far that , should I wade no more , Returning were as tedious as go o 'er : Strange things I have in head , that will to hand ; Which must be acted ere they may be scann 'd .
LADY MACBETH : You lack the season of all natures , sleep .
MACBETH : Come , we 'll to sleep . My strange and self-abuse Is the initiate fear that wants hard use : We are yet but young in deed . Thunder . Enter the three Witches meeting HECATE
First Witch : Why , how now , Hecate ! you look angerly .
