ANGUS : Near Birnam wood Shall we well meet them ; that way are they coming .
CAITHNESS : Who knows if Donalbain be with his brother ?
LENNOX : For certain , sir , he is not : I have a file Of all the gentry : there is Siward 's son , And many unrough youths that even now Protest their first of manhood .
MENTEITH : What does the tyrant ?
CAITHNESS : Great Dunsinane he strongly fortifies : Some say he 's mad ; others that lesser hate him Do call it valiant fury : but , for certain , He cannot buckle his distemper 'd cause Within the belt of rule .
ANGUS : Now does he feel His secret murders sticking on his hands ; Now minutely revolts upbraid his faith-breach ; Those he commands move only in command , Nothing in love : now does he feel his title Hang loose about him , like a giant 's robe Upon a dwarfish thief .
MENTEITH : Who then shall blame His pester 'd senses to recoil and start , When all that is within him does condemn Itself for being there ?
CAITHNESS : Well , march we on , To give obedience where ' tis truly owed : Meet we the medicine of the sickly weal , And with him pour we in our country 's purge Each drop of us .
LENNOX : Or so much as it needs , To dew the sovereign flower and drown the weeds . Make we our march towards Birnam . Enter MACBETH , Doctor , and Attendants
MACBETH : Bring me no more reports ; let them fly all : Till Birnam wood remove to Dunsinane , I cannot taint with fear . What 's the boy Malcolm ? Was he not born of woman ? The spirits that know All mortal consequences have pronounced me thus : ' Fear not , Macbeth ; no man that 's born of woman Shall e 'er have power upon thee . ' Then fly , false thanes , And mingle with the English epicures : The mind I sway by and the heart I bear Shall never sag with doubt nor shake with fear . Enter a Servant The devil damn thee black , thou cream-faced loon ! Where got 'st thou that goose look ?
Servant : There is ten thousand--
MACBETH : Geese , villain !
Servant : Soldiers , sir .
MACBETH : Go prick thy face , and over-red thy fear , Thou lily-liver 'd boy . What soldiers , patch ? Death of thy soul ! those linen cheeks of thine Are counsellors to fear . What soldiers , whey-face ?
Servant : The English force , so please you .
MACBETH : Take thy face hence . Exit Servant Seyton ! --I am sick at heart , When I behold--Seyton , I say ! --This push Will cheer me ever , or disseat me now . I have lived long enough : my way of life Is fall 'n into the sear , the yellow leaf ; And that which should accompany old age , As honour , love , obedience , troops of friends , I must not look to have ; but , in their stead , Curses , not loud but deep , mouth-honour , breath , Which the poor heart would fain deny , and dare not . Seyton ! Enter SEYTON
SEYTON : What is your gracious pleasure ?
MACBETH : What news more ?
SEYTON : All is confirm 'd , my lord , which was reported .
MACBETH : I 'll fight till from my bones my flesh be hack 'd . Give me my armour .
SEYTON : ' Tis not needed yet .
MACBETH : I 'll put it on . Send out more horses ; skirr the country round ; Hang those that talk of fear . Give me mine armour . How does your patient , doctor ?
Doctor : Not so sick , my lord , As she is troubled with thick coming fancies , That keep her from her rest .
MACBETH : Cure her of that . Canst thou not minister to a mind diseased , Pluck from the memory a rooted sorrow , Raze out the written troubles of the brain And with some sweet oblivious antidote Cleanse the stuff 'd bosom of that perilous stuff Which weighs upon the heart ?
Doctor : Therein the patient Must minister to himself .
