Porter : Here 's a knocking indeed ! If a man were porter of hell-gate , he should have old turning the key . Knocking within Knock , knock , knock ! Who 's there , i ' the name of Beelzebub ? Here 's a farmer , that hanged himself on the expectation of plenty : come in time ; have napkins enow about you ; here you 'll sweat for 't . Knocking within Knock , knock ! Who 's there , in the other devil 's name ? Faith , here 's an equivocator , that could swear in both the scales against either scale ; who committed treason enough for God 's sake , yet could not equivocate to heaven : O , come in , equivocator . Knocking within Knock , knock , knock ! Who 's there ? Faith , here 's an English tailor come hither , for stealing out of a French hose : come in , tailor ; here you may roast your goose . Knocking within Knock , knock ; never at quiet ! What are you ? But this place is too cold for hell . I 'll devil-porter it no further : I had thought to have let in some of all professions that go the primrose way to the everlasting bonfire . Knocking within Anon , anon ! I pray you , remember the porter . Opens the gate Enter MACDUFF and LENNOX
MACDUFF : Was it so late , friend , ere you went to bed , That you do lie so late ?
Porter : ' Faith sir , we were carousing till the second cock : and drink , sir , is a great provoker of three things .
MACDUFF : What three things does drink especially provoke ?
Porter : Marry , sir , nose-painting , sleep , and urine . Lechery , sir , it provokes , and unprovokes ; it provokes the desire , but it takes away the performance : therefore , much drink may be said to be an equivocator with lechery : it makes him , and it mars him ; it sets him on , and it takes him off ; it persuades him , and disheartens him ; makes him stand to , and not stand to ; in conclusion , equivocates him in a sleep , and , giving him the lie , leaves him .
MACDUFF : I believe drink gave thee the lie last night .
Porter : That it did , sir , i ' the very throat on me : but I requited him for his lie ; and , I think , being too strong for him , though he took up my legs sometime , yet I made a shift to cast him .
MACDUFF : Is thy master stirring ? Enter MACBETH Our knocking has awaked him ; here he comes .
LENNOX : Good morrow , noble sir .
MACBETH : Good morrow , both .
MACDUFF : Is the king stirring , worthy thane ?
MACBETH : Not yet .
MACDUFF : He did command me to call timely on him : I have almost slipp 'd the hour .
MACBETH : I 'll bring you to him .
MACDUFF : I know this is a joyful trouble to you ; But yet ' tis one .
MACBETH : The labour we delight in physics pain . This is the door .
MACDUFF : I 'll make so bold to call , For ' tis my limited service . Exit
LENNOX : Goes the king hence to-day ?
MACBETH : He does : he did appoint so .
LENNOX : The night has been unruly : where we lay , Our chimneys were blown down ; and , as they say , Lamentings heard i ' the air ; strange screams of death , And prophesying with accents terrible Of dire combustion and confused events New hatch 'd to the woeful time : the obscure bird Clamour 'd the livelong night : some say , the earth Was feverous and did shake .
MACBETH : ' Twas a rough night .
LENNOX : My young remembrance cannot parallel A fellow to it . Re-enter MACDUFF
MACDUFF : O horror , horror , horror ! Tongue nor heart Cannot conceive nor name thee !
MACBETH LENNOX : What 's the matter .
