MACBETH : Ride you this afternoon ?
BANQUO : Ay , my good lord .
MACBETH : We should have else desired your good advice , Which still hath been both grave and prosperous , In this day 's council ; but we 'll take to-morrow . Is 't far you ride ?
BANQUO : As far , my lord , as will fill up the time ' Twixt this and supper : go not my horse the better , I must become a borrower of the night For a dark hour or twain .
MACBETH : Fail not our feast .
BANQUO : My lord , I will not .
MACBETH : We hear , our bloody cousins are bestow 'd In England and in Ireland , not confessing Their cruel parricide , filling their hearers With strange invention : but of that to-morrow , When therewithal we shall have cause of state Craving us jointly . Hie you to horse : adieu , Till you return at night . Goes Fleance with you ?
BANQUO : Ay , my good lord : our time does call upon ' s .
MACBETH : I wish your horses swift and sure of foot ; And so I do commend you to their backs . Farewell . Exit BANQUO Let every man be master of his time Till seven at night : to make society The sweeter welcome , we will keep ourself Till supper-time alone : while then , God be with you ! Sirrah , a word with you : attend those men Our pleasure ?
ATTENDANT : They are , my lord , without the palace gate .
MACBETH : Bring them before us . Exit Attendant To be thus is nothing ; But to be safely thus.--Our fears in Banquo Stick deep ; and in his royalty of nature Reigns that which would be fear 'd : ' tis much he dares ; And , to that dauntless temper of his mind , He hath a wisdom that doth guide his valour To act in safety . There is none but he Whose being I do fear : and , under him , My Genius is rebuked ; as , it is said , Mark Antony 's was by Caesar . He chid the sisters When first they put the name of king upon me , And bade them speak to him : then prophet-like They hail 'd him father to a line of kings : Upon my head they placed a fruitless crown , And put a barren sceptre in my gripe , Thence to be wrench 'd with an unlineal hand , No son of mine succeeding . If ' t be so , For Banquo 's issue have I filed my mind ; For them the gracious Duncan have I murder 'd ; Put rancours in the vessel of my peace Only for them ; and mine eternal jewel Given to the common enemy of man , To make them kings , the seed of Banquo kings ! Rather than so , come fate into the list . And champion me to the utterance ! Who 's there ! Re-enter Attendant , with two Murderers Now go to the door , and stay there till we call . Exit Attendant Was it not yesterday we spoke together ?
First Murderer : It was , so please your highness .
MACBETH : Well then , now Have you consider 'd of my speeches ? Know That it was he in the times past which held you So under fortune , which you thought had been Our innocent self : this I made good to you In our last conference , pass 'd in probation with you , How you were borne in hand , how cross 'd , the instruments , Who wrought with them , and all things else that might To half a soul and to a notion crazed Say ' Thus did Banquo . ' 
First Murderer : You made it known to us .
MACBETH : I did so , and went further , which is now Our point of second meeting . Do you find Your patience so predominant in your nature That you can let this go ? Are you so gospell 'd To pray for this good man and for his issue , Whose heavy hand hath bow 'd you to the grave And beggar 'd yours for ever ?
First Murderer : We are men , my liege .
