MACDUFF : I am not treacherous .
MALCOLM : But Macbeth is . A good and virtuous nature may recoil In an imperial charge . But I shall crave your pardon ; That which you are my thoughts cannot transpose : Angels are bright still , though the brightest fell ; Though all things foul would wear the brows of grace , Yet grace must still look so .
MACDUFF : I have lost my hopes .
MALCOLM : Perchance even there where I did find my doubts . Why in that rawness left you wife and child , Those precious motives , those strong knots of love , Without leave-taking ? I pray you , Let not my jealousies be your dishonours , But mine own safeties . You may be rightly just , Whatever I shall think .
MACDUFF : Bleed , bleed , poor country ! Great tyranny ! lay thou thy basis sure , For goodness dare not cheque thee : wear thou thy wrongs ; The title is affeer 'd ! Fare thee well , lord : I would not be the villain that thou think 'st For the whole space that 's in the tyrant 's grasp , And the rich East to boot .
MALCOLM : Be not offended : I speak not as in absolute fear of you . I think our country sinks beneath the yoke ; It weeps , it bleeds ; and each new day a gash Is added to her wounds : I think withal There would be hands uplifted in my right ; And here from gracious England have I offer Of goodly thousands : but , for all this , When I shall tread upon the tyrant 's head , Or wear it on my sword , yet my poor country Shall have more vices than it had before , More suffer and more sundry ways than ever , By him that shall succeed .
MACDUFF : What should he be ?
MALCOLM : It is myself I mean : in whom I know All the particulars of vice so grafted That , when they shall be open 'd , black Macbeth Will seem as pure as snow , and the poor state Esteem him as a lamb , being compared With my confineless harms .
MACDUFF : Not in the legions Of horrid hell can come a devil more damn 'd In evils to top Macbeth .
MALCOLM : I grant him bloody , Luxurious , avaricious , false , deceitful , Sudden , malicious , smacking of every sin That has a name : but there 's no bottom , none , In my voluptuousness : your wives , your daughters , Your matrons and your maids , could not fill up The cistern of my lust , and my desire All continent impediments would o 'erbear That did oppose my will : better Macbeth Than such an one to reign .
MACDUFF : Boundless intemperance In nature is a tyranny ; it hath been The untimely emptying of the happy throne And fall of many kings . But fear not yet To take upon you what is yours : you may Convey your pleasures in a spacious plenty , And yet seem cold , the time you may so hoodwink . We have willing dames enough : there cannot be That vulture in you , to devour so many As will to greatness dedicate themselves , Finding it so inclined .
MALCOLM : With this there grows In my most ill-composed affection such A stanchless avarice that , were I king , I should cut off the nobles for their lands , Desire his jewels and this other 's house : And my more-having would be as a sauce To make me hunger more ; that I should forge Quarrels unjust against the good and loyal , Destroying them for wealth .
MACDUFF : This avarice Sticks deeper , grows with more pernicious root Than summer-seeming lust , and it hath been The sword of our slain kings : yet do not fear ; Scotland hath foisons to fill up your will . Of your mere own : all these are portable , With other graces weigh 'd .
