MALCOLM : Now near enough : your leafy screens throw down . And show like those you are . You , worthy uncle , Shall , with my cousin , your right-noble son , Lead our first battle : worthy Macduff and we Shall take upon ' s what else remains to do , According to our order .
SIWARD : Fare you well . Do we but find the tyrant 's power to-night , Let us be beaten , if we cannot fight .
MACDUFF : Make all our trumpets speak ; give them all breath , Those clamorous harbingers of blood and death . Alarums . Enter MACBETH
MACBETH : They have tied me to a stake ; I cannot fly , But , bear-like , I must fight the course . What 's he That was not born of woman ? Such a one Am I to fear , or none . Enter YOUNG SIWARD
YOUNG SIWARD : What is thy name ?
MACBETH : Thou 'lt be afraid to hear it .
YOUNG SIWARD : No ; though thou call 'st thyself a hotter name Than any is in hell .
MACBETH : My name 's Macbeth .
YOUNG SIWARD : The devil himself could not pronounce a title More hateful to mine ear .
MACBETH : No , nor more fearful .
YOUNG SIWARD : Thou liest , abhorred tyrant ; with my sword I 'll prove the lie thou speak 'st . They fight and YOUNG SIWARD is slain
MACBETH : Thou wast born of woman But swords I smile at , weapons laugh to scorn , Brandish 'd by man that 's of a woman born . Exit Alarums . Enter MACDUFF
MACDUFF : That way the noise is . Tyrant , show thy face ! If thou be 'st slain and with no stroke of mine , My wife and children 's ghosts will haunt me still . I cannot strike at wretched kerns , whose arms Are hired to bear their staves : either thou , Macbeth , Or else my sword with an unbatter 'd edge I sheathe again undeeded . There thou shouldst be ; By this great clatter , one of greatest note Seems bruited . Let me find him , fortune ! And more I beg not . Exit . Alarums Enter MALCOLM and SIWARD
SIWARD : This way , my lord ; the castle 's gently render 'd : The tyrant 's people on both sides do fight ; The noble thanes do bravely in the war ; The day almost itself professes yours , And little is to do .
MALCOLM : We have met with foes That strike beside us .
SIWARD : Enter , sir , the castle . Enter MACBETH
MACBETH : Why should I play the Roman fool , and die On mine own sword ? whiles I see lives , the gashes Do better upon them . Enter MACDUFF
MACDUFF : Turn , hell-hound , turn !
MACBETH : Of all men else I have avoided thee : But get thee back ; my soul is too much charged With blood of thine already .
MACDUFF : I have no words : My voice is in my sword : thou bloodier villain Than terms can give thee out ! They fight
MACBETH : Thou losest labour : As easy mayst thou the intrenchant air With thy keen sword impress as make me bleed : Let fall thy blade on vulnerable crests ; I bear a charmed life , which must not yield , To one of woman born .
MACDUFF : Despair thy charm ; And let the angel whom thou still hast served Tell thee , Macduff was from his mother 's womb Untimely ripp 'd .
MACBETH : Accursed be that tongue that tells me so , For it hath cow 'd my better part of man ! And be these juggling fiends no more believed , That palter with us in a double sense ; That keep the word of promise to our ear , And break it to our hope . I 'll not fight with thee .
MACDUFF : Then yield thee , coward , And live to be the show and gaze o ' the time : We 'll have thee , as our rarer monsters are , Painted on a pole , and underwrit , ' Here may you see the tyrant . ' 
