ROSS : Why , well .
MACDUFF : And all my children ?
ROSS : Well too .
MACDUFF : The tyrant has not batter 'd at their peace ?
ROSS : No ; they were well at peace when I did leave ' em .
MACDUFF : But not a niggard of your speech : how goes 't ?
ROSS : When I came hither to transport the tidings , Which I have heavily borne , there ran a rumour Of many worthy fellows that were out ; Which was to my belief witness 'd the rather , For that I saw the tyrant 's power a-foot : Now is the time of help ; your eye in Scotland Would create soldiers , make our women fight , To doff their dire distresses .
MALCOLM : Be 't their comfort We are coming thither : gracious England hath Lent us good Siward and ten thousand men ; An older and a better soldier none That Christendom gives out .
ROSS : Would I could answer This comfort with the like ! But I have words That would be howl 'd out in the desert air , Where hearing should not latch them .
MACDUFF : What concern they ? The general cause ? or is it a fee-grief Due to some single breast ?
ROSS : No mind that 's honest But in it shares some woe ; though the main part Pertains to you alone .
MACDUFF : If it be mine , Keep it not from me , quickly let me have it .
ROSS : Let not your ears despise my tongue for ever , Which shall possess them with the heaviest sound That ever yet they heard .
MACDUFF : Hum ! I guess at it .
ROSS : Your castle is surprised ; your wife and babes Savagely slaughter 'd : to relate the manner , Were , on the quarry of these murder 'd deer , To add the death of you .
MALCOLM : Merciful heaven ! What , man ! ne 'er pull your hat upon your brows ; Give sorrow words : the grief that does not speak Whispers the o 'er-fraught heart and bids it break .
MACDUFF : My children too ?
ROSS : Wife , children , servants , all That could be found .
MACDUFF : And I must be from thence ! My wife kill 'd too ?
ROSS : I have said .
MALCOLM : Be comforted : Let 's make us medicines of our great revenge , To cure this deadly grief .
MACDUFF : He has no children . All my pretty ones ? Did you say all ? O hell-kite ! All ? What , all my pretty chickens and their dam At one fell swoop ?
MALCOLM : Dispute it like a man .
MACDUFF : I shall do so ; But I must also feel it as a man : I cannot but remember such things were , That were most precious to me . Did heaven look on , And would not take their part ? Sinful Macduff , They were all struck for thee ! naught that I am , Not for their own demerits , but for mine , Fell slaughter on their souls . Heaven rest them now !
MALCOLM : Be this the whetstone of your sword : let grief Convert to anger ; blunt not the heart , enrage it .
MACDUFF : O , I could play the woman with mine eyes And braggart with my tongue ! But , gentle heavens , Cut short all intermission ; front to front Bring thou this fiend of Scotland and myself ; Within my sword 's length set him ; if he ' scape , Heaven forgive him too !
MALCOLM : This tune goes manly . Come , go we to the king ; our power is ready ; Our lack is nothing but our leave ; Macbeth Is ripe for shaking , and the powers above Put on their instruments . Receive what cheer you may : The night is long that never finds the day . Enter a Doctor of Physic and a Waiting-Gentlewoman
Doctor : I have two nights watched with you , but can perceive no truth in your report . When was it she last walked ?
