DONALBAIN : To Ireland , I ; our separated fortune Shall keep us both the safer : where we are , There 's daggers in men 's smiles : the near in blood , The nearer bloody .
MALCOLM : This murderous shaft that 's shot Hath not yet lighted , and our safest way Is to avoid the aim . Therefore , to horse ; And let us not be dainty of leave-taking , But shift away : there 's warrant in that theft Which steals itself , when there 's no mercy left . Enter ROSS and an old Man
Old Man : Threescore and ten I can remember well : Within the volume of which time I have seen Hours dreadful and things strange ; but this sore night Hath trifled former knowings .
ROSS : Ah , good father , Thou seest , the heavens , as troubled with man 's act , Threaten his bloody stage : by the clock , ' tis day , And yet dark night strangles the travelling lamp : Is 't night 's predominance , or the day 's shame , That darkness does the face of earth entomb , When living light should kiss it ?
Old Man : ' Tis unnatural , Even like the deed that 's done . On Tuesday last , A falcon , towering in her pride of place , Was by a mousing owl hawk 'd at and kill 'd .
ROSS : And Duncan 's horses--a thing most strange and certain-- Beauteous and swift , the minions of their race , Turn 'd wild in nature , broke their stalls , flung out , Contending ' gainst obedience , as they would make War with mankind .
Old Man : ' Tis said they eat each other .
ROSS : They did so , to the amazement of mine eyes That look 'd upon 't . Here comes the good Macduff . Enter MACDUFF How goes the world , sir , now ?
MACDUFF : Why , see you not ?
ROSS : Is 't known who did this more than bloody deed ?
MACDUFF : Those that Macbeth hath slain .
ROSS : Alas , the day ! What good could they pretend ?
MACDUFF : They were suborn 'd : Malcolm and Donalbain , the king 's two sons , Are stol 'n away and fled ; which puts upon them Suspicion of the deed .
ROSS : ' Gainst nature still ! Thriftless ambition , that wilt ravin up Thine own life 's means ! Then ' tis most like The sovereignty will fall upon Macbeth .
MACDUFF : He is already named , and gone to Scone To be invested .
ROSS : Where is Duncan 's body ?
MACDUFF : Carried to Colmekill , The sacred storehouse of his predecessors , And guardian of their bones .
ROSS : Will you to Scone ?
MACDUFF : No , cousin , I 'll to Fife .
ROSS : Well , I will thither .
MACDUFF : Well , may you see things well done there : adieu ! Lest our old robes sit easier than our new !
ROSS : Farewell , father .
Old Man : God 's benison go with you ; and with those That would make good of bad , and friends of foes ! Enter BANQUO
BANQUO : Thou hast it now : king , Cawdor , Glamis , all , As the weird women promised , and , I fear , Thou play 'dst most foully for 't : yet it was said It should not stand in thy posterity , But that myself should be the root and father Of many kings . If there come truth from them-- As upon thee , Macbeth , their speeches shine-- Why , by the verities on thee made good , May they not be my oracles as well , And set me up in hope ? But hush ! no more . Sennet sounded . Enter MACBETH , as king , LADY MACBETH , as queen , LENNOX , ROSS , Lords , Ladies , and Attendants
MACBETH : Here 's our chief guest .
LADY MACBETH : If he had been forgotten , It had been as a gap in our great feast , And all-thing unbecoming .
MACBETH : To-night we hold a solemn supper sir , And I 'll request your presence .
