Second Witch : Killing swine .
Third Witch : Sister , where thou ?
First Witch : A sailor 's wife had chestnuts in her lap , And munch 'd , and munch 'd , and munch 'd : -- ' Give me , ' quoth I : ' Aroint thee , witch ! ' the rump-fed ronyon cries . Her husband 's to Aleppo gone , master o ' the Tiger : But in a sieve I 'll thither sail , And , like a rat without a tail , I 'll do , I 'll do , and I 'll do .
Second Witch : I 'll give thee a wind .
First Witch : Thou 'rt kind .
Third Witch : And I another .
First Witch : I myself have all the other , And the very ports they blow , All the quarters that they know I ' the shipman 's card . I will drain him dry as hay : Sleep shall neither night nor day Hang upon his pent-house lid ; He shall live a man forbid : Weary se 'nnights nine times nine Shall he dwindle , peak and pine : Though his bark cannot be lost , Yet it shall be tempest-tost . Look what I have .
Second Witch : Show me , show me .
First Witch : Here I have a pilot 's thumb , Wreck 'd as homeward he did come . Drum within
Third Witch : A drum , a drum ! Macbeth doth come .
ALL : The weird sisters , hand in hand , Posters of the sea and land , Thus do go about , about : Thrice to thine and thrice to mine And thrice again , to make up nine . Peace ! the charm 's wound up . Enter MACBETH and BANQUO
MACBETH : So foul and fair a day I have not seen .
BANQUO : How far is 't call 'd to Forres ? What are these So wither 'd and so wild in their attire , That look not like the inhabitants o ' the earth , And yet are on 't ? Live you ? or are you aught That man may question ? You seem to understand me , By each at once her chappy finger laying Upon her skinny lips : you should be women , And yet your beards forbid me to interpret That you are so .
MACBETH : Speak , if you can : what are you ?
First Witch : All hail , Macbeth ! hail to thee , thane of Glamis !
Second Witch : All hail , Macbeth , hail to thee , thane of Cawdor !
Third Witch : All hail , Macbeth , thou shalt be king hereafter !
BANQUO : Good sir , why do you start ; and seem to fear Things that do sound so fair ? I ' the name of truth , Are ye fantastical , or that indeed Which outwardly ye show ? My noble partner You greet with present grace and great prediction Of noble having and of royal hope , That he seems rapt withal : to me you speak not . If you can look into the seeds of time , And say which grain will grow and which will not , Speak then to me , who neither beg nor fear Your favours nor your hate .
First Witch : Hail !
Second Witch : Hail !
Third Witch : Hail !
First Witch : Lesser than Macbeth , and greater .
Second Witch : Not so happy , yet much happier .
Third Witch : Thou shalt get kings , though thou be none : So all hail , Macbeth and Banquo !
First Witch : Banquo and Macbeth , all hail !
MACBETH : Stay , you imperfect speakers , tell me more : By Sinel 's death I know I am thane of Glamis ; But how of Cawdor ? the thane of Cawdor lives , A prosperous gentleman ; and to be king Stands not within the prospect of belief , No more than to be Cawdor . Say from whence You owe this strange intelligence ? or why Upon this blasted heath you stop our way With such prophetic greeting ? Speak , I charge you . Witches vanish
BANQUO : The earth hath bubbles , as the water has , And these are of them . Whither are they vanish 'd ?
