ALL : Double , double toil and trouble ; Fire burn and cauldron bubble .
Second Witch : Cool it with a baboon 's blood , Then the charm is firm and good . Enter HECATE to the other three Witches
HECATE : O well done ! I commend your pains ; And every one shall share i ' the gains ; And now about the cauldron sing , Live elves and fairies in a ring , Enchanting all that you put in . Music and a song : ' Black spirits , ' & c HECATE retires
Second Witch : By the pricking of my thumbs , Something wicked this way comes . Open , locks , Whoever knocks ! Enter MACBETH
MACBETH : How now , you secret , black , and midnight hags ! What is 't you do ?
ALL : A deed without a name .
MACBETH : I conjure you , by that which you profess , Howe 'er you come to know it , answer me : Though you untie the winds and let them fight Against the churches ; though the yesty waves Confound and swallow navigation up ; Though bladed corn be lodged and trees blown down ; Though castles topple on their warders ' heads ; Though palaces and pyramids do slope Their heads to their foundations ; though the treasure Of nature 's germens tumble all together , Even till destruction sicken ; answer me To what I ask you .
First Witch : Speak .
Second Witch : Demand .
Third Witch : We 'll answer .
First Witch : Say , if thou 'dst rather hear it from our mouths , Or from our masters ?
MACBETH : Call ' em ; let me see ' em .
First Witch : Pour in sow 's blood , that hath eaten Her nine farrow ; grease that 's sweaten From the murderer 's gibbet throw Into the flame .
ALL : Come , high or low ; Thyself and office deftly show ! Thunder . First Apparition : an armed Head
MACBETH : Tell me , thou unknown power , --
First Witch : He knows thy thought : Hear his speech , but say thou nought .
First Apparition : Macbeth ! Macbeth ! Macbeth ! beware Macduff ; Beware the thane of Fife . Dismiss me . Enough . Descends
MACBETH : Whate 'er thou art , for thy good caution , thanks ; Thou hast harp 'd my fear aright : but one word more , --
First Witch : He will not be commanded : here 's another , More potent than the first . Thunder . Second Apparition : A bloody Child
Second Apparition : Macbeth ! Macbeth ! Macbeth !
MACBETH : Had I three ears , I 'ld hear thee .
Second Apparition : Be bloody , bold , and resolute ; laugh to scorn The power of man , for none of woman born Shall harm Macbeth . Descends
MACBETH : Then live , Macduff : what need I fear of thee ? But yet I 'll make assurance double sure , And take a bond of fate : thou shalt not live ; That I may tell pale-hearted fear it lies , And sleep in spite of thunder . Thunder . Third Apparition : a Child crowned , with a tree in his hand What is this That rises like the issue of a king , And wears upon his baby-brow the round And top of sovereignty ?
ALL : Listen , but speak not to 't .
Third Apparition : Be lion-mettled , proud ; and take no care Who chafes , who frets , or where conspirers are : Macbeth shall never vanquish 'd be until Great Birnam wood to high Dunsinane hill Shall come against him . Descends
MACBETH : That will never be Who can impress the forest , bid the tree Unfix his earth-bound root ? Sweet bodements ! good ! Rebellion 's head , rise never till the wood Of Birnam rise , and our high-placed Macbeth Shall live the lease of nature , pay his breath To time and mortal custom . Yet my heart Throbs to know one thing : tell me , if your art Can tell so much : shall Banquo 's issue ever Reign in this kingdom ?
ALL : Seek to know no more .
