FERDINAND : How well he 's read , to reason against reading !
DUMAIN : Proceeded well , to stop all good proceeding !
LONGAVILLE : He weeds the corn and still lets grow the weeding .
BIRON : The spring is near when green geese are a-breeding .
DUMAIN : How follows that ?
BIRON : Fit in his place and time .
DUMAIN : In reason nothing .
BIRON : Something then in rhyme .
FERDINAND : Biron is like an envious sneaping frost , That bites the first-born infants of the spring .
BIRON : Well , say I am ; why should proud summer boast Before the birds have any cause to sing ? Why should I joy in any abortive birth ? At Christmas I no more desire a rose Than wish a snow in May 's new-fangled mirth ; But like of each thing that in season grows . So you , to study now it is too late , Climb o 'er the house to unlock the little gate .
FERDINAND : Well , sit you out : go home , Biron : adieu .
BIRON : No , my good lord ; I have sworn to stay with you : And though I have for barbarism spoke more Than for that angel knowledge you can say , Yet confident I 'll keep what I have swore And bide the penance of each three years ' day . Give me the paper ; let me read the same ; And to the strict 'st decrees I 'll write my name .
FERDINAND : How well this yielding rescues thee from shame !
BIRON : ' Item , That no woman shall come within a mile of my court : ' Hath this been proclaimed ?
LONGAVILLE : Four days ago .
BIRON : Let 's see the penalty . Reads ' On pain of losing her tongue . ' Who devised this penalty ?
LONGAVILLE : Marry , that did I.
BIRON : Sweet lord , and why ?
LONGAVILLE : To fright them hence with that dread penalty .
BIRON : A dangerous law against gentility ! Reads ' Item , If any man be seen to talk with a woman within the term of three years , he shall endure such public shame as the rest of the court can possibly devise . ' This article , my liege , yourself must break ; For well you know here comes in embassy The French king 's daughter with yourself to speak-- A maid of grace and complete majesty-- About surrender up of Aquitaine To her decrepit , sick and bedrid father : Therefore this article is made in vain , Or vainly comes the admired princess hither .
FERDINAND : What say you , lords ? Why , this was quite forgot .
BIRON : So study evermore is overshot : While it doth study to have what it would It doth forget to do the thing it should , And when it hath the thing it hunteth most , ' Tis won as towns with fire , so won , so lost .
FERDINAND : We must of force dispense with this decree ; She must lie here on mere necessity .
BIRON : Necessity will make us all forsworn Three thousand times within this three years ' space ; For every man with his affects is born , Not by might master 'd but by special grace : If I break faith , this word shall speak for me ; I am forsworn on ' mere necessity . ' So to the laws at large I write my name : Subscribes And he that breaks them in the least degree Stands in attainder of eternal shame : Suggestions are to other as to me ; But I believe , although I seem so loath , I am the last that will last keep his oath . But is there no quick recreation granted ?
