BIRON : Why , he comes in like a perjure , wearing papers .
FERDINAND : In love , I hope : sweet fellowship in shame !
BIRON : One drunkard loves another of the name .
LONGAVILLE : Am I the first that have been perjured so ?
BIRON : I could put thee in comfort . Not by two that I know : Thou makest the triumviry , the corner-cap of society , The shape of Love 's Tyburn that hangs up simplicity .
LONGAVILLE : I fear these stubborn lines lack power to move : O sweet Maria , empress of my love ! These numbers will I tear , and write in prose .
BIRON : O , rhymes are guards on wanton Cupid 's hose : Disfigure not his slop .
LONGAVILLE : This same shall go . Reads Did not the heavenly rhetoric of thine eye , ' Gainst whom the world cannot hold argument , Persuade my heart to this false perjury ? Vows for thee broke deserve not punishment . A woman I forswore ; but I will prove , Thou being a goddess , I forswore not thee : My vow was earthly , thou a heavenly love ; Thy grace being gain 'd cures all disgrace in me . Vows are but breath , and breath a vapour is : Then thou , fair sun , which on my earth dost shine , Exhalest this vapour-vow ; in thee it is : If broken then , it is no fault of mine : If by me broke , what fool is not so wise To lose an oath to win a paradise ?
BIRON : This is the liver-vein , which makes flesh a deity , A green goose a goddess : pure , pure idolatry . God amend us , God amend ! we are much out o ' the way .
LONGAVILLE : By whom shall I send this ? --Company ! stay . Steps aside
BIRON : All hid , all hid ; an old infant play . Like a demigod here sit I in the sky . And wretched fools ' secrets heedfully o 'ereye . More sacks to the mill ! O heavens , I have my wish ! Enter DUMAIN , with a paper Dumain transform 'd ! four woodcocks in a dish !
DUMAIN : O most divine Kate !
BIRON : O most profane coxcomb !
DUMAIN : By heaven , the wonder in a mortal eye !
BIRON : By earth , she is not , corporal , there you lie .
DUMAIN : Her amber hair for foul hath amber quoted .
BIRON : An amber-colour 'd raven was well noted .
DUMAIN : As upright as the cedar .
BIRON : Stoop , I say ; Her shoulder is with child .
DUMAIN : As fair as day .
BIRON : Ay , as some days ; but then no sun must shine .
DUMAIN : O that I had my wish !
LONGAVILLE : And I had mine !
FERDINAND : And I mine too , good Lord !
BIRON : Amen , so I had mine : is not that a good word ?
DUMAIN : I would forget her ; but a fever she Reigns in my blood and will remember 'd be .
BIRON : A fever in your blood ! why , then incision Would let her out in saucers : sweet misprision !
DUMAIN : Once more I 'll read the ode that I have writ .
BIRON : Once more I 'll mark how love can vary wit .
