BOYET : I know not ; but I think it was not he .
PRINCESS : Whoe 'er a ' was , a ' show 'd a mounting mind . Well , lords , to-day we shall have our dispatch : On Saturday we will return to France . Then , forester , my friend , where is the bush That we must stand and play the murderer in ?
Forester : Hereby , upon the edge of yonder coppice ; A stand where you may make the fairest shoot .
PRINCESS : I thank my beauty , I am fair that shoot , And thereupon thou speak 'st the fairest shoot .
Forester : Pardon me , madam , for I meant not so .
PRINCESS : What , what ? first praise me and again say no ? O short-lived pride ! Not fair ? alack for woe !
Forester : Yes , madam , fair .
PRINCESS : Nay , never paint me now : Where fair is not , praise cannot mend the brow . Here , good my glass , take this for telling true : Fair payment for foul words is more than due .
Forester : Nothing but fair is that which you inherit .
PRINCESS : See see , my beauty will be saved by merit ! O heresy in fair , fit for these days ! A giving hand , though foul , shall have fair praise . But come , the bow : now mercy goes to kill , And shooting well is then accounted ill . Thus will I save my credit in the shoot : Not wounding , pity would not let me do 't ; If wounding , then it was to show my skill , That more for praise than purpose meant to kill . And out of question so it is sometimes , Glory grows guilty of detested crimes , When , for fame 's sake , for praise , an outward part , We bend to that the working of the heart ; As I for praise alone now seek to spill The poor deer 's blood , that my heart means no ill .
BOYET : Do not curst wives hold that self-sovereignty Only for praise sake , when they strive to be Lords o 'er their lords ?
PRINCESS : Only for praise : and praise we may afford To any lady that subdues a lord .
BOYET : Here comes a member of the commonwealth . Enter COSTARD
COSTARD : God dig-you-den all ! Pray you , which is the head lady ?
PRINCESS : Thou shalt know her , fellow , by the rest that have no heads .
COSTARD : Which is the greatest lady , the highest ?
PRINCESS : The thickest and the tallest .
COSTARD : The thickest and the tallest ! it is so ; truth is truth . An your waist , mistress , were as slender as my wit , One o ' these maids ' girdles for your waist should be fit . Are not you the chief woman ? you are the thickest here .
PRINCESS : What 's your will , sir ? what 's your will ?
COSTARD : I have a letter from Monsieur Biron to one Lady Rosaline .
PRINCESS : O , thy letter , thy letter ! he 's a good friend of mine : Stand aside , good bearer . Boyet , you can carve ; Break up this capon .
BOYET : I am bound to serve . This letter is mistook , it importeth none here ; It is writ to Jaquenetta .
PRINCESS : We will read it , I swear . Break the neck of the wax , and every one give ear . Reads
