COSTARD : Of Dun Adramadio , Dun Adramadio . BIRON tears the letter
FERDINAND : How now ! what is in you ? why dost thou tear it ?
BIRON : A toy , my liege , a toy : your grace needs not fear it .
LONGAVILLE : It did move him to passion , and therefore let 's hear it .
DUMAIN : It is Biron 's writing , and here is his name . Gathering up the pieces
BIRON : Ah , you whoreson loggerhead ! you were born to do me shame . Guilty , my lord , guilty ! I confess , I confess .
FERDINAND : What ?
BIRON : That you three fools lack 'd me fool to make up the mess : He , he , and you , and you , my liege , and I , Are pick-purses in love , and we deserve to die . O , dismiss this audience , and I shall tell you more .
DUMAIN : Now the number is even .
BIRON : True , true ; we are four . Will these turtles be gone ?
FERDINAND : Hence , sirs ; away !
COSTARD : Walk aside the true folk , and let the traitors stay .
BIRON : Sweet lords , sweet lovers , O , let us embrace ! As true we are as flesh and blood can be : The sea will ebb and flow , heaven show his face ; Young blood doth not obey an old decree : We cannot cross the cause why we were born ; Therefore of all hands must we be forsworn .
FERDINAND : What , did these rent lines show some love of thine ?
BIRON : Did they , quoth you ? Who sees the heavenly Rosaline , That , like a rude and savage man of Inde , At the first opening of the gorgeous east , Bows not his vassal head and strucken blind Kisses the base ground with obedient breast ? What peremptory eagle-sighted eye Dares look upon the heaven of her brow , That is not blinded by her majesty ?
FERDINAND : What zeal , what fury hath inspired thee now ? My love , her mistress , is a gracious moon ; She an attending star , scarce seen a light .
BIRON : My eyes are then no eyes , nor I Biron : O , but for my love , day would turn to night ! Of all complexions the cull 'd sovereignty Do meet , as at a fair , in her fair cheek , Where several worthies make one dignity , Where nothing wants that want itself doth seek . Lend me the flourish of all gentle tongues , -- Fie , painted rhetoric ! O , she needs it not : To things of sale a seller 's praise belongs , She passes praise ; then praise too short doth blot . A wither 'd hermit , five-score winters worn , Might shake off fifty , looking in her eye : Beauty doth varnish age , as if new-born , And gives the crutch the cradle 's infancy : O , ' tis the sun that maketh all things shine .
FERDINAND : By heaven , thy love is black as ebony .
BIRON : Is ebony like her ? O wood divine ! A wife of such wood were felicity . O , who can give an oath ? where is a book ? That I may swear beauty doth beauty lack , If that she learn not of her eye to look : No face is fair that is not full so black .
FERDINAND : O paradox ! Black is the badge of hell , The hue of dungeons and the suit of night ; And beauty 's crest becomes the heavens well .
BIRON : Devils soonest tempt , resembling spirits of light . O , if in black my lady 's brows be deck 'd , It mourns that painting and usurping hair Should ravish doters with a false aspect ; And therefore is she born to make black fair . Her favour turns the fashion of the days , For native blood is counted painting now ; And therefore red , that would avoid dispraise , Paints itself black , to imitate her brow .
DUMAIN : To look like her are chimney-sweepers black .
LONGAVILLE : And since her time are colliers counted bright .
