BOYET : They do , they do : and are apparell 'd thus . Like Muscovites or Russians , as I guess . Their purpose is to parle , to court and dance ; And every one his love-feat will advance Unto his several mistress , which they 'll know By favours several which they did bestow .
PRINCESS : And will they so ? the gallants shall be task 'd ; For , ladies , we shall every one be mask 'd ; And not a man of them shall have the grace , Despite of suit , to see a lady 's face . Hold , Rosaline , this favour thou shalt wear , And then the king will court thee for his dear ; Hold , take thou this , my sweet , and give me thine , So shall Biron take me for Rosaline . And change your favours too ; so shall your loves Woo contrary , deceived by these removes .
ROSALINE : Come on , then ; wear the favours most in sight .
KATHARINE : But in this changing what is your intent ?
PRINCESS : The effect of my intent is to cross theirs : They do it but in mocking merriment ; And mock for mock is only my intent . Their several counsels they unbosom shall To loves mistook , and so be mock 'd withal Upon the next occasion that we meet , With visages displayed , to talk and greet .
ROSALINE : But shall we dance , if they desire to 't ?
PRINCESS : No , to the death , we will not move a foot ; Nor to their penn 'd speech render we no grace , But while ' tis spoke each turn away her face .
BOYET : Why , that contempt will kill the speaker 's heart , And quite divorce his memory from his part .
PRINCESS : Therefore I do it ; and I make no doubt The rest will ne 'er come in , if he be out There 's no such sport as sport by sport o 'erthrown , To make theirs ours and ours none but our own : So shall we stay , mocking intended game , And they , well mock 'd , depart away with shame . Trumpets sound within
BOYET : The trumpet sounds : be mask 'd ; the maskers come . The Ladies mask Enter Blackamoors with music ; MOTH ; FERDINAND , BIRON , LONGAVILLE , and DUMAIN , in Russian habits , and masked
MOTH : All hail , the richest beauties on the earth ! --
BOYET : Beauties no richer than rich taffeta .
MOTH : A holy parcel of the fairest dames . The Ladies turn their backs to him That ever turn 'd their--backs--to mortal views !
BIRON : Their eyes , villain , their eyes !
MOTH : That ever turn 'd their eyes to mortal views ! --Out--
BOYET : True ; out indeed .
MOTH : Out of your favours , heavenly spirits , vouchsafe Not to behold--
BIRON : Once to behold , rogue .
MOTH : Once to behold with your sun-beamed eyes , --with your sun-beamed eyes--
BOYET : They will not answer to that epithet ; You were best call it ' daughter-beamed eyes . ' 
MOTH : They do not mark me , and that brings me out .
BIRON : Is this your perfectness ? be gone , you rogue ! Exit MOTH
ROSALINE : What would these strangers ? know their minds , Boyet : If they do speak our language , ' tis our will : That some plain man recount their purposes Know what they would .
BOYET : What would you with the princess ?
BIRON : Nothing but peace and gentle visitation .
ROSALINE : What would they , say they ?
BOYET : Nothing but peace and gentle visitation .
ROSALINE : Why , that they have ; and bid them so be gone .
BOYET : She says , you have it , and you may be gone .
FERDINAND : Say to her , we have measured many miles To tread a measure with her on this grass .
BOYET : They say , that they have measured many a mile To tread a measure with you on this grass .
