LONGAVILLE : Dumain , thy love is far from charity . You may look pale , but I should blush , I know , To be o 'erheard and taken napping so .
FERDINAND : Come , sir , you blush ; as his your case is such ; You chide at him , offending twice as much ; You do not love Maria ; Longaville Did never sonnet for her sake compile , Nor never lay his wreathed arms athwart His loving bosom to keep down his heart . I have been closely shrouded in this bush And mark 'd you both and for you both did blush : I heard your guilty rhymes , observed your fashion , Saw sighs reek from you , noted well your passion : Ay me ! says one ; O Jove ! the other cries ; One , her hairs were gold , crystal the other 's eyes : To LONGAVILLE You would for paradise break faith , and troth ; To DUMAIN And Jove , for your love , would infringe an oath . What will Biron say when that he shall hear Faith so infringed , which such zeal did swear ? How will he scorn ! how will he spend his wit ! How will he triumph , leap and laugh at it ! For all the wealth that ever I did see , I would not have him know so much by me .
BIRON : Now step I forth to whip hypocrisy . Advancing Ah , good my liege , I pray thee , pardon me ! Good heart , what grace hast thou , thus to reprove These worms for loving , that art most in love ? Your eyes do make no coaches ; in your tears There is no certain princess that appears ; You 'll not be perjured , ' tis a hateful thing ; Tush , none but minstrels like of sonneting ! But are you not ashamed ? nay , are you not , All three of you , to be thus much o 'ershot ? You found his mote ; the king your mote did see ; But I a beam do find in each of three . O , what a scene of foolery have I seen , Of sighs , of groans , of sorrow and of teen ! O me , with what strict patience have I sat , To see a king transformed to a gnat ! To see great Hercules whipping a gig , And profound Solomon to tune a jig , And Nestor play at push-pin with the boys , And critic Timon laugh at idle toys ! Where lies thy grief , O , tell me , good Dumain ? And gentle Longaville , where lies thy pain ? And where my liege 's ? all about the breast : A caudle , ho !
FERDINAND : Too bitter is thy jest . Are we betray 'd thus to thy over-view ?
BIRON : Not you to me , but I betray 'd by you : I , that am honest ; I , that hold it sin To break the vow I am engaged in ; I am betray 'd , by keeping company With men like men of inconstancy . When shall you see me write a thing in rhyme ? Or groan for love ? or spend a minute 's time In pruning me ? When shall you hear that I Will praise a hand , a foot , a face , an eye , A gait , a state , a brow , a breast , a waist , A leg , a limb ?
FERDINAND : Soft ! whither away so fast ? A true man or a thief that gallops so ?
BIRON : I post from love : good lover , let me go . Enter JAQUENETTA and COSTARD
JAQUENETTA : God bless the king !
FERDINAND : What present hast thou there ?
COSTARD : Some certain treason .
FERDINAND : What makes treason here ?
COSTARD : Nay , it makes nothing , sir .
FERDINAND : If it mar nothing neither , The treason and you go in peace away together .
JAQUENETTA : I beseech your grace , let this letter be read : Our parson misdoubts it ; ' twas treason , he said .
FERDINAND : Biron , read it over . Giving him the paper Where hadst thou it ?
JAQUENETTA : Of Costard .
