SIR NATHANIEL : Very reverend sport , truly ; and done in the testimony of a good conscience .
HOLOFERNES : The deer was , as you know , sanguis , in blood ; ripe as the pomewater , who now hangeth like a jewel in the ear of caelo , the sky , the welkin , the heaven ; and anon falleth like a crab on the face of terra , the soil , the land , the earth .
SIR NATHANIEL : Truly , Master Holofernes , the epithets are sweetly varied , like a scholar at the least : but , sir , I assure ye , it was a buck of the first head .
HOLOFERNES : Sir Nathaniel , haud credo .
DULL : ' Twas not a haud credo ; ' twas a pricket .
HOLOFERNES : Most barbarous intimation ! yet a kind of insinuation , as it were , in via , in way , of explication ; facere , as it were , replication , or rather , ostentare , to show , as it were , his inclination , after his undressed , unpolished , uneducated , unpruned , untrained , or rather , unlettered , or ratherest , unconfirmed fashion , to insert again my haud credo for a deer .
DULL : I said the deer was not a haud credo ; twas a pricket .
HOLOFERNES : Twice-sod simplicity , his coctus ! O thou monster Ignorance , how deformed dost thou look !
SIR NATHANIEL : Sir , he hath never fed of the dainties that are bred in a book ; he hath not eat paper , as it were ; he hath not drunk ink : his intellect is not replenished ; he is only an animal , only sensible in the duller parts : And such barren plants are set before us , that we thankful should be , Which we of taste and feeling are , for those parts that do fructify in us more than he . For as it would ill become me to be vain , indiscreet , or a fool , So were there a patch set on learning , to see him in a school : But omne bene , say I ; being of an old father 's mind , Many can brook the weather that love not the wind .
DULL : You two are book-men : can you tell me by your wit What was a month old at Cain 's birth , that 's not five weeks old as yet ?
HOLOFERNES : Dictynna , goodman Dull ; Dictynna , goodman Dull .
DULL : What is Dictynna ?
SIR NATHANIEL : A title to Phoebe , to Luna , to the moon .
HOLOFERNES : The moon was a month old when Adam was no more , And raught not to five weeks when he came to five-score . The allusion holds in the exchange .
DULL : ' Tis true indeed ; the collusion holds in the exchange .
HOLOFERNES : God comfort thy capacity ! I say , the allusion holds in the exchange .
DULL : And I say , the pollusion holds in the exchange ; for the moon is never but a month old : and I say beside that , ' twas a pricket that the princess killed .
HOLOFERNES : Sir Nathaniel , will you hear an extemporal epitaph on the death of the deer ? And , to humour the ignorant , call I the deer the princess killed a pricket .
SIR NATHANIEL : Perge , good Master Holofernes , perge ; so it shall please you to abrogate scurrility .
HOLOFERNES : I will something affect the letter , for it argues facility . The preyful princess pierced and prick 'd a pretty pleasing pricket ; Some say a sore ; but not a sore , till now made sore with shooting . The dogs did yell : put L to sore , then sorel jumps from thicket ; Or pricket sore , or else sorel ; the people fall a-hooting . If sore be sore , then L to sore makes fifty sores one sorel . Of one sore I an hundred make by adding but one more L.
SIR NATHANIEL : A rare talent !
DULL : If a talent be a claw , look how he claws him with a talent .
