BOYET : Now , madam , summon up your dearest spirits : Consider who the king your father sends , To whom he sends , and what 's his embassy : Yourself , held precious in the world 's esteem , To parley with the sole inheritor Of all perfections that a man may owe , Matchless Navarre ; the plea of no less weight Than Aquitaine , a dowry for a queen . Be now as prodigal of all dear grace As Nature was in making graces dear When she did starve the general world beside And prodigally gave them all to you .
PRINCESS : Good Lord Boyet , my beauty , though but mean , Needs not the painted flourish of your praise : Beauty is bought by judgement of the eye , Not utter 'd by base sale of chapmen 's tongues : I am less proud to hear you tell my worth Than you much willing to be counted wise In spending your wit in the praise of mine . But now to task the tasker : good Boyet , You are not ignorant , all-telling fame Doth noise abroad , Navarre hath made a vow , Till painful study shall outwear three years , No woman may approach his silent court : Therefore to 's seemeth it a needful course , Before we enter his forbidden gates , To know his pleasure ; and in that behalf , Bold of your worthiness , we single you As our best-moving fair solicitor . Tell him , the daughter of the King of France , On serious business , craving quick dispatch , Importunes personal conference with his grace : Haste , signify so much ; while we attend , Like humble-visaged suitors , his high will .
BOYET : Proud of employment , willingly I go .
PRINCESS : All pride is willing pride , and yours is so . Exit BOYET Who are the votaries , my loving lords , That are vow-fellows with this virtuous duke ?
First Lord : Lord Longaville is one .
PRINCESS : Know you the man ?
MARIA : I know him , madam : at a marriage-feast , Between Lord Perigort and the beauteous heir Of Jaques Falconbridge , solemnized In Normandy , saw I this Longaville : A man of sovereign parts he is esteem 'd ; Well fitted in arts , glorious in arms : Nothing becomes him ill that he would well . The only soil of his fair virtue 's gloss , If virtue 's gloss will stain with any soil , Is a sharp wit matched with too blunt a will ; Whose edge hath power to cut , whose will still wills It should none spare that come within his power .
PRINCESS : Some merry mocking lord , belike ; is 't so ?
MARIA : They say so most that most his humours know .
PRINCESS : Such short-lived wits do wither as they grow . Who are the rest ?
KATHARINE : The young Dumain , a well-accomplished youth , Of all that virtue love for virtue loved : Most power to do most harm , least knowing ill ; For he hath wit to make an ill shape good , And shape to win grace though he had no wit . I saw him at the Duke Alencon 's once ; And much too little of that good I saw Is my report to his great worthiness .
ROSALINE : Another of these students at that time Was there with him , if I have heard a truth . Biron they call him ; but a merrier man , Within the limit of becoming mirth , I never spent an hour 's talk withal : His eye begets occasion for his wit ; For every object that the one doth catch The other turns to a mirth-moving jest , Which his fair tongue , conceit 's expositor , Delivers in such apt and gracious words That aged ears play truant at his tales And younger hearings are quite ravished ; So sweet and voluble is his discourse .
PRINCESS : God bless my ladies ! are they all in love , That every one her own hath garnished With such bedecking ornaments of praise ?
First Lord : Here comes Boyet . Re-enter BOYET
PRINCESS : Now , what admittance , lord ?
