COSTARD : Have with thee , my girl .
SIR NATHANIEL : Sir , you have done this in the fear of God , very religiously ; and , as a certain father saith , --
HOLOFERNES : Sir tell me not of the father ; I do fear colourable colours . But to return to the verses : did they please you , Sir Nathaniel ?
SIR NATHANIEL : Marvellous well for the pen .
HOLOFERNES : I do dine to-day at the father 's of a certain pupil of mine ; where , if , before repast , it shall please you to gratify the table with a grace , I will , on my privilege I have with the parents of the foresaid child or pupil , undertake your ben venuto ; where I will prove those verses to be very unlearned , neither savouring of poetry , wit , nor invention : I beseech your society .
SIR NATHANIEL : And thank you too ; for society , saith the text , is the happiness of life .
HOLOFERNES : And , certes , the text most infallibly concludes it . To DULL Sir , I do invite you too ; you shall not say me nay : pauca verba . Away ! the gentles are at their game , and we will to our recreation . LOVE 'S LABOURS LOST Enter BIRON , with a paper
BIRON : The king he is hunting the deer ; I am coursing myself : they have pitched a toil ; I am toiling in a pitch , --pitch that defiles : defile ! a foul word . Well , set thee down , sorrow ! for so they say the fool said , and so say I , and I the fool : well proved , wit ! By the Lord , this love is as mad as Ajax : it kills sheep ; it kills me , I a sheep : well proved again o ' my side ! I will not love : if I do , hang me ; i ' faith , I will not . O , but her eye , --by this light , but for her eye , I would not love her ; yes , for her two eyes . Well , I do nothing in the world but lie , and lie in my throat . By heaven , I do love : and it hath taught me to rhyme and to be melancholy ; and here is part of my rhyme , and here my melancholy . Well , she hath one o ' my sonnets already : the clown bore it , the fool sent it , and the lady hath it : sweet clown , sweeter fool , sweetest lady ! By the world , I would not care a pin , if the other three were in . Here comes one with a paper : God give him grace to groan ! Stands aside Enter FERDINAND , with a paper
FERDINAND : Ay me !
BIRON : Shot , by heaven ! Proceed , sweet Cupid : thou hast thumped him with thy bird-bolt under the left pap . In faith , secrets !
FERDINAND : So sweet a kiss the golden sun gives not To those fresh morning drops upon the rose , As thy eye-beams , when their fresh rays have smote The night of dew that on my cheeks down flows : Nor shines the silver moon one half so bright Through the transparent bosom of the deep , As doth thy face through tears of mine give light ; Thou shinest in every tear that I do weep : No drop but as a coach doth carry thee ; So ridest thou triumphing in my woe . Do but behold the tears that swell in me , And they thy glory through my grief will show : But do not love thyself ; then thou wilt keep My tears for glasses , and still make me weep . O queen of queens ! how far dost thou excel , No thought can think , nor tongue of mortal tell . How shall she know my griefs ? I 'll drop the paper : Sweet leaves , shade folly . Who is he comes here ? Steps aside What , Longaville ! and reading ! listen , ear .
BIRON : Now , in thy likeness , one more fool appear ! Enter LONGAVILLE , with a paper
