MERCADE : God save you , madam !
PRINCESS : Welcome , Mercade ; But that thou interrupt 'st our merriment .
MERCADE : I am sorry , madam ; for the news I bring Is heavy in my tongue . The king your father--
PRINCESS : Dead , for my life !
MERCADE : Even so ; my tale is told .
BIRON : Worthies , away ! the scene begins to cloud . DON
ADRIANO DE ARMADO : For mine own part , I breathe free breath . I have seen the day of wrong through the little hole of discretion , and I will right myself like a soldier .
FERDINAND : How fares your majesty ?
PRINCESS : Boyet , prepare ; I will away tonight .
FERDINAND : Madam , not so ; I do beseech you , stay .
PRINCESS : Prepare , I say . I thank you , gracious lords , For all your fair endeavors ; and entreat , Out of a new-sad soul , that you vouchsafe In your rich wisdom to excuse or hide The liberal opposition of our spirits , If over-boldly we have borne ourselves In the converse of breath : your gentleness Was guilty of it . Farewell worthy lord ! A heavy heart bears not a nimble tongue : Excuse me so , coming too short of thanks For my great suit so easily obtain 'd .
FERDINAND : The extreme parts of time extremely forms All causes to the purpose of his speed , And often at his very loose decides That which long process could not arbitrate : And though the mourning brow of progeny Forbid the smiling courtesy of love The holy suit which fain it would convince , Yet , since love 's argument was first on foot , Let not the cloud of sorrow justle it From what it purposed ; since , to wail friends lost Is not by much so wholesome-profitable As to rejoice at friends but newly found .
PRINCESS : I understand you not : my griefs are double .
BIRON : Honest plain words best pierce the ear of grief ; And by these badges understand the king . For your fair sakes have we neglected time , Play 'd foul play with our oaths : your beauty , ladies , Hath much deform 'd us , fashioning our humours Even to the opposed end of our intents : And what in us hath seem 'd ridiculous , -- As love is full of unbefitting strains , All wanton as a child , skipping and vain , Form 'd by the eye and therefore , like the eye , Full of strange shapes , of habits and of forms , Varying in subjects as the eye doth roll To every varied object in his glance : Which parti-coated presence of loose love Put on by us , if , in your heavenly eyes , Have misbecomed our oaths and gravities , Those heavenly eyes , that look into these faults , Suggested us to make . Therefore , ladies , Our love being yours , the error that love makes Is likewise yours : we to ourselves prove false , By being once false for ever to be true To those that make us both , --fair ladies , you : And even that falsehood , in itself a sin , Thus purifies itself and turns to grace .
PRINCESS : We have received your letters full of love ; Your favours , the ambassadors of love ; And , in our maiden council , rated them At courtship , pleasant jest and courtesy , As bombast and as lining to the time : But more devout than this in our respects Have we not been ; and therefore met your loves In their own fashion , like a merriment .
DUMAIN : Our letters , madam , show 'd much more than jest .
LONGAVILLE : So did our looks .
ROSALINE : We did not quote them so .
FERDINAND : Now , at the latest minute of the hour , Grant us your loves .
