MOTH : Like the sequel , I. Signior Costard , adieu .
COSTARD : My sweet ounce of man 's flesh ! my incony Jew ! Exit MOTH Now will I look to his remuneration . Remuneration ! O , that 's the Latin word for three farthings : three farthings--remuneration.-- ' What 's the price of this inkle ? ' -- ' One penny . ' -- ' No , I 'll give you a remuneration : ' why , it carries it . Remuneration ! why , it is a fairer name than French crown . I will never buy and sell out of this word . Enter BIRON
BIRON : O , my good knave Costard ! exceedingly well met .
COSTARD : Pray you , sir , how much carnation ribbon may a man buy for a remuneration ?
BIRON : What is a remuneration ?
COSTARD : Marry , sir , halfpenny farthing .
BIRON : Why , then , three-farthing worth of silk .
COSTARD : I thank your worship : God be wi ' you !
BIRON : Stay , slave ; I must employ thee : As thou wilt win my favour , good my knave , Do one thing for me that I shall entreat .
COSTARD : When would you have it done , sir ?
BIRON : This afternoon .
COSTARD : Well , I will do it , sir : fare you well .
BIRON : Thou knowest not what it is .
COSTARD : I shall know , sir , when I have done it .
BIRON : Why , villain , thou must know first .
COSTARD : I will come to your worship to-morrow morning .
BIRON : It must be done this afternoon . Hark , slave , it is but this : The princess comes to hunt here in the park , And in her train there is a gentle lady ; When tongues speak sweetly , then they name her name , And Rosaline they call her : ask for her ; And to her white hand see thou do commend This seal 'd-up counsel . There 's thy guerdon ; go . Giving him a shilling
COSTARD : Gardon , O sweet gardon ! better than remuneration , a 'leven-pence farthing better : most sweet gardon ! I will do it sir , in print . Gardon ! Remuneration ! Exit
BIRON : And I , forsooth , in love ! I , that have been love 's whip ; A very beadle to a humorous sigh ; A critic , nay , a night-watch constable ; A domineering pedant o 'er the boy ; Than whom no mortal so magnificent ! This whimpled , whining , purblind , wayward boy ; This senior-junior , giant-dwarf , Dan Cupid ; Regent of love-rhymes , lord of folded arms , The anointed sovereign of sighs and groans , Liege of all loiterers and malcontents , Dread prince of plackets , king of codpieces , Sole imperator and great general Of trotting ' paritors : --O my little heart : -- And I to be a corporal of his field , And wear his colours like a tumbler 's hoop ! What , I ! I love ! I sue ! I seek a wife ! A woman , that is like a German clock , Still a-repairing , ever out of frame , And never going aright , being a watch , But being watch 'd that it may still go right ! Nay , to be perjured , which is worst of all ; And , among three , to love the worst of all ; A wightly wanton with a velvet brow , With two pitch-balls stuck in her face for eyes ; Ay , and by heaven , one that will do the deed Though Argus were her eunuch and her guard : And I to sigh for her ! to watch for her ! To pray for her ! Go to ; it is a plague That Cupid will impose for my neglect Of his almighty dreadful little might . Well , I will love , write , sigh , pray , sue and groan : Some men must love my lady and some Joan . Exit LOVE 'S LABOURS LOST Enter the PRINCESS , and her train , a Forester , BOYET , ROSALINE , MARIA , and KATHARINE
