SIR NATHANIEL : Sir , I praise the Lord for you ; and so may my parishioners ; for their sons are well tutored by you , and their daughters profit very greatly under you : you are a good member of the commonwealth .
HOLOFERNES : Mehercle , if their sons be ingenuous , they shall want no instruction ; if their daughters be capable , I will put it to them : but vir sapit qui pauca loquitur ; a soul feminine saluteth us . Enter JAQUENETTA and COSTARD
JAQUENETTA : God give you good morrow , master Parson .
HOLOFERNES : Master Parson , quasi pers-on . An if one should be pierced , which is the one ?
COSTARD : Marry , master schoolmaster , he that is likest to a hogshead .
HOLOFERNES : Piercing a hogshead ! a good lustre of conceit in a tuft of earth ; fire enough for a flint , pearl enough for a swine : ' tis pretty ; it is well .
JAQUENETTA : Good master Parson , be so good as read me this letter : it was given me by Costard , and sent me from Don Armado : I beseech you , read it .
HOLOFERNES : Fauste , precor gelida quando pecus omne sub umbra Ruminat , --and so forth . Ah , good old Mantuan ! I may speak of thee as the traveller doth of Venice ; Venetia , Venetia , Chi non ti vede non ti pretia . Old Mantuan , old Mantuan ! who understandeth thee not , loves thee not . Ut , re , sol , la , mi , fa . Under pardon , sir , what are the contents ? or rather , as Horace says in his--What , my soul , verses ?
SIR NATHANIEL : Ay , sir , and very learned .
HOLOFERNES : Let me hear a staff , a stanze , a verse ; lege , domine .
SIR NATHANIEL : If love make me forsworn , how shall I swear to love ? Ah , never faith could hold , if not to beauty vow 'd ! Though to myself forsworn , to thee I 'll faithful prove : Those thoughts to me were oaks , to thee like osiers bow 'd . Study his bias leaves and makes his book thine eyes , Where all those pleasures live that art would comprehend : If knowledge be the mark , to know thee shall suffice ; Well learned is that tongue that well can thee commend , All ignorant that soul that sees thee without wonder ; Which is to me some praise that I thy parts admire : Thy eye Jove 's lightning bears , thy voice his dreadful thunder , Which not to anger bent , is music and sweet fire . Celestial as thou art , O , pardon , love , this wrong , That sings heaven 's praise with such an earthly tongue .
HOLOFERNES : You find not the apostraphas , and so miss the accent : let me supervise the canzonet . Here are only numbers ratified ; but , for the elegancy , facility , and golden cadence of poesy , caret . Ovidius Naso was the man : and why , indeed , Naso , but for smelling out the odouriferous flowers of fancy , the jerks of invention ? Imitari is nothing : so doth the hound his master , the ape his keeper , the tired horse his rider . But , damosella virgin , was this directed to you ?
JAQUENETTA : Ay , sir , from one Monsieur Biron , one of the strange queen 's lords .
HOLOFERNES : I will overglance the superscript : ' To the snow-white hand of the most beauteous Lady Rosaline . ' I will look again on the intellect of the letter , for the nomination of the party writing to the person written unto : ' Your ladyship 's in all desired employment , BIRON . ' Sir Nathaniel , this Biron is one of the votaries with the king ; and here he hath framed a letter to a sequent of the stranger queen 's , which accidentally , or by the way of progression , hath miscarried . Trip and go , my sweet ; deliver this paper into the royal hand of the king : it may concern much . Stay not thy compliment ; I forgive thy duty ; adieu .
