ROSALINE : Sans sans , I pray you .
BIRON : Yet I have a trick Of the old rage : bear with me , I am sick ; I 'll leave it by degrees . Soft , let us see : Write , ' Lord have mercy on us ' on those three ; They are infected ; in their hearts it lies ; They have the plague , and caught it of your eyes ; These lords are visited ; you are not free , For the Lord 's tokens on you do I see .
PRINCESS : No , they are free that gave these tokens to us .
BIRON : Our states are forfeit : seek not to undo us .
ROSALINE : It is not so ; for how can this be true , That you stand forfeit , being those that sue ?
BIRON : Peace ! for I will not have to do with you .
ROSALINE : Nor shall not , if I do as I intend .
BIRON : Speak for yourselves ; my wit is at an end .
FERDINAND : Teach us , sweet madam , for our rude transgression Some fair excuse .
PRINCESS : The fairest is confession . Were not you here but even now disguised ?
FERDINAND : Madam , I was .
PRINCESS : And were you well advised ?
FERDINAND : I was , fair madam .
PRINCESS : When you then were here , What did you whisper in your lady 's ear ?
FERDINAND : That more than all the world I did respect her .
PRINCESS : When she shall challenge this , you will reject her .
FERDINAND : Upon mine honour , no .
PRINCESS : Peace , peace ! forbear : Your oath once broke , you force not to forswear .
FERDINAND : Despise me , when I break this oath of mine .
PRINCESS : I will : and therefore keep it . Rosaline , What did the Russian whisper in your ear ?
ROSALINE : Madam , he swore that he did hold me dear As precious eyesight , and did value me Above this world ; adding thereto moreover That he would wed me , or else die my lover .
PRINCESS : God give thee joy of him ! the noble lord Most honourably doth unhold his word .
FERDINAND : What mean you , madam ? by my life , my troth , I never swore this lady such an oath .
ROSALINE : By heaven , you did ; and to confirm it plain , You gave me this : but take it , sir , again .
FERDINAND : My faith and this the princess I did give : I knew her by this jewel on her sleeve .
PRINCESS : Pardon me , sir , this jewel did she wear ; And Lord Biron , I thank him , is my dear . What , will you have me , or your pearl again ?
BIRON : Neither of either ; I remit both twain . I see the trick on 't : here was a consent , Knowing aforehand of our merriment , To dash it like a Christmas comedy : Some carry-tale , some please-man , some slight zany , Some mumble-news , some trencher-knight , some Dick , That smiles his cheek in years and knows the trick To make my lady laugh when she 's disposed , Told our intents before ; which once disclosed , The ladies did change favours : and then we , Following the signs , woo 'd but the sign of she . Now , to our perjury to add more terror , We are again forsworn , in will and error . Much upon this it is : and might not you To BOYET Forestall our sport , to make us thus untrue ? Do not you know my lady 's foot by the squier , And laugh upon the apple of her eye ? And stand between her back , sir , and the fire , Holding a trencher , jesting merrily ? You put our page out : go , you are allow 'd ; Die when you will , a smock shall be your shroud . You leer upon me , do you ? there 's an eye Wounds like a leaden sword .
BOYET : Full merrily Hath this brave manage , this career , been run .
