BIRON : Armado is a most illustrious wight , A man of fire-new words , fashion 's own knight .
LONGAVILLE : Costard the swain and he shall be our sport ; And so to study , three years is but short . Enter DULL with a letter , and COSTARD
DULL : Which is the duke 's own person ?
BIRON : This , fellow : what wouldst ?
DULL : I myself reprehend his own person , for I am his grace 's tharborough : but I would see his own person in flesh and blood .
BIRON : This is he .
DULL : Signior Arme--Arme--commends you . There 's villany abroad : this letter will tell you more .
COSTARD : Sir , the contempts thereof are as touching me .
FERDINAND : A letter from the magnificent Armado .
BIRON : How low soever the matter , I hope in God for high words .
LONGAVILLE : A high hope for a low heaven : God grant us patience !
BIRON : To hear ? or forbear laughing ?
LONGAVILLE : To hear meekly , sir , and to laugh moderately ; or to forbear both .
BIRON : Well , sir , be it as the style shall give us cause to climb in the merriness .
COSTARD : The matter is to me , sir , as concerning Jaquenetta . The manner of it is , I was taken with the manner .
BIRON : In what manner ?
COSTARD : In manner and form following , sir ; all those three : I was seen with her in the manor-house , sitting with her upon the form , and taken following her into the park ; which , put together , is in manner and form following . Now , sir , for the manner , --it is the manner of a man to speak to a woman : for the form , -- in some form .
BIRON : For the following , sir ?
COSTARD : As it shall follow in my correction : and God defend the right !
FERDINAND : Will you hear this letter with attention ?
BIRON : As we would hear an oracle .
COSTARD : Such is the simplicity of man to hearken after the flesh .
FERDINAND : ' Great deputy , the welkin 's vicegerent and sole dominator of Navarre , my soul 's earth 's god , and body 's fostering patron . ' 
COSTARD : Not a word of Costard yet .
FERDINAND : ' So it is , ' --
COSTARD : It may be so : but if he say it is so , he is , in telling true , but so .
FERDINAND : Peace !
COSTARD : Be to me and every man that dares not fight !
FERDINAND : No words !
COSTARD : Of other men 's secrets , I beseech you .
FERDINAND : ' So it is , besieged with sable-coloured melancholy , I did commend the black-oppressing humour to the most wholesome physic of thy health-giving air ; and , as I am a gentleman , betook myself to walk . The time when . About the sixth hour ; when beasts most graze , birds best peck , and men sit down to that nourishment which is called supper : so much for the time when . Now for the ground which ; which , I mean , I walked upon : it is y-cleped thy park . Then for the place where ; where , I mean , I did encounter that obscene and preposterous event , that draweth from my snow-white pen the ebon-coloured ink , which here thou viewest , beholdest , surveyest , or seest ; but to the place where ; it standeth north-north-east and by east from the west corner of thy curious- knotted garden : there did I see that low-spirited swain , that base minnow of thy mirth , ' --
COSTARD : Me ?
FERDINAND : ' that unlettered small-knowing soul , ' --
COSTARD : Me ?
FERDINAND : ' that shallow vassal , ' --
COSTARD : Still me ?
FERDINAND : ' which , as I remember , hight Costard , ' --
COSTARD : O , me !
FERDINAND : ' sorted and consorted , contrary to thy established proclaimed edict and continent canon , which with , --O , with--but with this I passion to say wherewith , --
