FERDINAND : If this , or more than this , I would deny , To flatter up these powers of mine with rest , The sudden hand of death close up mine eye ! Hence ever then my heart is in thy breast .
DUMAIN : But what to me , my love ? but what to me ? A wife ?
KATHARINE : A beard , fair health , and honesty ; With three-fold love I wish you all these three .
DUMAIN : O , shall I say , I thank you , gentle wife ?
KATHARINE : Not so , my lord ; a twelvemonth and a day I 'll mark no words that smooth-faced wooers say : Come when the king doth to my lady come ; Then , if I have much love , I 'll give you some .
DUMAIN : I 'll serve thee true and faithfully till then .
KATHARINE : Yet swear not , lest ye be forsworn again .
LONGAVILLE : What says Maria ?
MARIA : At the twelvemonth 's end I 'll change my black gown for a faithful friend .
LONGAVILLE : I 'll stay with patience ; but the time is long .
MARIA : The liker you ; few taller are so young .
BIRON : Studies my lady ? mistress , look on me ; Behold the window of my heart , mine eye , What humble suit attends thy answer there : Impose some service on me for thy love .
ROSALINE : Oft have I heard of you , my Lord Biron , Before I saw you ; and the world 's large tongue Proclaims you for a man replete with mocks , Full of comparisons and wounding flouts , Which you on all estates will execute That lie within the mercy of your wit . To weed this wormwood from your fruitful brain , And therewithal to win me , if you please , Without the which I am not to be won , You shall this twelvemonth term from day to day Visit the speechless sick and still converse With groaning wretches ; and your task shall be , With all the fierce endeavor of your wit To enforce the pained impotent to smile .
BIRON : To move wild laughter in the throat of death ? It cannot be ; it is impossible : Mirth cannot move a soul in agony .
ROSALINE : Why , that 's the way to choke a gibing spirit , Whose influence is begot of that loose grace Which shallow laughing hearers give to fools : A jest 's prosperity lies in the ear Of him that hears it , never in the tongue Of him that makes it : then , if sickly ears , Deaf 'd with the clamours of their own dear groans , Will hear your idle scorns , continue then , And I will have you and that fault withal ; But if they will not , throw away that spirit , And I shall find you empty of that fault , Right joyful of your reformation .
BIRON : A twelvemonth ! well ; befall what will befall , I 'll jest a twelvemonth in an hospital .
PRINCESS : Ay , sweet my lord ; and so I take my leave .
FERDINAND : No , madam ; we will bring you on your way .
BIRON : Our wooing doth not end like an old play ; Jack hath not Jill : these ladies ' courtesy Might well have made our sport a comedy .
FERDINAND : Come , sir , it wants a twelvemonth and a day , And then ' twill end .
BIRON : That 's too long for a play . Re-enter DON ADRIANO DE ARMADO DON
ADRIANO DE ARMADO : Sweet majesty , vouchsafe me , --
PRINCESS : Was not that Hector ?
DUMAIN : The worthy knight of Troy . DON
ADRIANO DE ARMADO : I will kiss thy royal finger , and take leave . I am a votary ; I have vowed to Jaquenetta to hold the plough for her sweet love three years . But , most esteemed greatness , will you hear the dialogue that the two learned men have compiled in praise of the owl and the cuckoo ? It should have followed in the end of our show .
FERDINAND : Call them forth quickly ; we will do so . DON
