PRINCESS : But , Katharine , what was sent to you from fair Dumain ?
KATHARINE : Madam , this glove .
PRINCESS : Did he not send you twain ?
KATHARINE : Yes , madam , and moreover Some thousand verses of a faithful lover , A huge translation of hypocrisy , Vilely compiled , profound simplicity .
MARIA : This and these pearls to me sent Longaville : The letter is too long by half a mile .
PRINCESS : I think no less . Dost thou not wish in heart The chain were longer and the letter short ?
MARIA : Ay , or I would these hands might never part .
PRINCESS : We are wise girls to mock our lovers so .
ROSALINE : They are worse fools to purchase mocking so . That same Biron I 'll torture ere I go : O that I knew he were but in by the week ! How I would make him fawn and beg and seek And wait the season and observe the times And spend his prodigal wits in bootless rhymes And shape his service wholly to my hests And make him proud to make me proud that jests ! So perttaunt-like would I o 'ersway his state That he should be my fool and I his fate .
PRINCESS : None are so surely caught , when they are catch 'd , As wit turn 'd fool : folly , in wisdom hatch 'd , Hath wisdom 's warrant and the help of school And wit 's own grace to grace a learned fool .
ROSALINE : The blood of youth burns not with such excess As gravity 's revolt to wantonness .
MARIA : Folly in fools bears not so strong a note As foolery in the wise , when wit doth dote ; Since all the power thereof it doth apply To prove , by wit , worth in simplicity .
PRINCESS : Here comes Boyet , and mirth is in his face . Enter BOYET
BOYET : O , I am stabb 'd with laughter ! Where 's her grace ?
PRINCESS : Thy news Boyet ?
BOYET : Prepare , madam , prepare ! Arm , wenches , arm ! encounters mounted are Against your peace : Love doth approach disguised , Armed in arguments ; you 'll be surprised : Muster your wits ; stand in your own defence ; Or hide your heads like cowards , and fly hence .
PRINCESS : Saint Denis to Saint Cupid ! What are they That charge their breath against us ? say , scout , say .
BOYET : Under the cool shade of a sycamore I thought to close mine eyes some half an hour ; When , lo ! to interrupt my purposed rest , Toward that shade I might behold addrest The king and his companions : warily I stole into a neighbour thicket by , And overheard what you shall overhear , That , by and by , disguised they will be here . Their herald is a pretty knavish page , That well by heart hath conn 'd his embassage : Action and accent did they teach him there ; ' Thus must thou speak , ' and ' thus thy body bear : ' And ever and anon they made a doubt Presence majestical would put him out , ' For , ' quoth the king , ' an angel shalt thou see ; Yet fear not thou , but speak audaciously . ' The boy replied , ' An angel is not evil ; I should have fear 'd her had she been a devil . ' With that , all laugh 'd and clapp 'd him on the shoulder , Making the bold wag by their praises bolder : One rubb 'd his elbow thus , and fleer 'd and swore A better speech was never spoke before ; Another , with his finger and his thumb , Cried , ' Via ! we will do 't , come what will come ; ' The third he caper 'd , and cried , ' All goes well ; ' The fourth turn 'd on the toe , and down he fell . With that , they all did tumble on the ground , With such a zealous laughter , so profound , That in this spleen ridiculous appears , To cheque their folly , passion 's solemn tears .
