FERDINAND : Fair princess , welcome to the court of Navarre .
PRINCESS : ' Fair ' I give you back again ; and ' welcome ' I have not yet : the roof of this court is too high to be yours ; and welcome to the wide fields too base to be mine .
FERDINAND : You shall be welcome , madam , to my court .
PRINCESS : I will be welcome , then : conduct me thither .
FERDINAND : Hear me , dear lady ; I have sworn an oath .
PRINCESS : Our Lady help my lord ! he 'll be forsworn .
FERDINAND : Not for the world , fair madam , by my will .
PRINCESS : Why , will shall break it ; will and nothing else .
FERDINAND : Your ladyship is ignorant what it is .
PRINCESS : Were my lord so , his ignorance were wise , Where now his knowledge must prove ignorance . I hear your grace hath sworn out house-keeping : Tis deadly sin to keep that oath , my lord , And sin to break it . But pardon me . I am too sudden-bold : To teach a teacher ill beseemeth me . Vouchsafe to read the purpose of my coming , And suddenly resolve me in my suit .
FERDINAND : Madam , I will , if suddenly I may .
PRINCESS : You will the sooner , that I were away ; For you 'll prove perjured if you make me stay .
BIRON : Did not I dance with you in Brabant once ?
ROSALINE : Did not I dance with you in Brabant once ?
BIRON : I know you did .
ROSALINE : How needless was it then to ask the question !
BIRON : You must not be so quick .
ROSALINE : ' Tis ' long of you that spur me with such questions .
BIRON : Your wit 's too hot , it speeds too fast , ' twill tire .
ROSALINE : Not till it leave the rider in the mire .
BIRON : What time o ' day ?
ROSALINE : The hour that fools should ask .
BIRON : Now fair befall your mask !
ROSALINE : Fair fall the face it covers !
BIRON : And send you many lovers !
ROSALINE : Amen , so you be none .
BIRON : Nay , then will I be gone .
FERDINAND : Madam , your father here doth intimate The payment of a hundred thousand crowns ; Being but the one half of an entire sum Disbursed by my father in his wars . But say that he or we , as neither have , Received that sum , yet there remains unpaid A hundred thousand more ; in surety of the which , One part of Aquitaine is bound to us , Although not valued to the money 's worth . If then the king your father will restore But that one half which is unsatisfied , We will give up our right in Aquitaine , And hold fair friendship with his majesty . But that , it seems , he little purposeth , For here he doth demand to have repaid A hundred thousand crowns ; and not demands , On payment of a hundred thousand crowns , To have his title live in Aquitaine ; Which we much rather had depart withal And have the money by our father lent Than Aquitaine so gelded as it is . Dear Princess , were not his requests so far From reason 's yielding , your fair self should make A yielding ' gainst some reason in my breast And go well satisfied to France again .
PRINCESS : You do the king my father too much wrong And wrong the reputation of your name , In so unseeming to confess receipt Of that which hath so faithfully been paid .
FERDINAND : I do protest I never heard of it ; And if you prove it , I 'll repay it back Or yield up Aquitaine .
PRINCESS : We arrest your word . Boyet , you can produce acquittances For such a sum from special officers Of Charles his father .
FERDINAND : Satisfy me so .
BOYET : So please your grace , the packet is not come Where that and other specialties are bound : To-morrow you shall have a sight of them .
