FERDINAND : Let fame , that all hunt after in their lives , Live register 'd upon our brazen tombs And then grace us in the disgrace of death ; When , spite of cormorant devouring Time , The endeavor of this present breath may buy That honour which shall bate his scythe 's keen edge And make us heirs of all eternity . Therefore , brave conquerors , --for so you are , That war against your own affections And the huge army of the world 's desires , -- Our late edict shall strongly stand in force : Navarre shall be the wonder of the world ; Our court shall be a little Academe , Still and contemplative in living art . You three , Biron , Dumain , and Longaville , Have sworn for three years ' term to live with me My fellow-scholars , and to keep those statutes That are recorded in this schedule here : Your oaths are pass 'd ; and now subscribe your names , That his own hand may strike his honour down That violates the smallest branch herein : If you are arm 'd to do as sworn to do , Subscribe to your deep oaths , and keep it too .
LONGAVILLE : I am resolved ; ' tis but a three years ' fast : The mind shall banquet , though the body pine : Fat paunches have lean pates , and dainty bits Make rich the ribs , but bankrupt quite the wits .
DUMAIN : My loving lord , Dumain is mortified : The grosser manner of these world 's delights He throws upon the gross world 's baser slaves : To love , to wealth , to pomp , I pine and die ; With all these living in philosophy .
BIRON : I can but say their protestation over ; So much , dear liege , I have already sworn , That is , to live and study here three years . But there are other strict observances ; As , not to see a woman in that term , Which I hope well is not enrolled there ; And one day in a week to touch no food And but one meal on every day beside , The which I hope is not enrolled there ; And then , to sleep but three hours in the night , And not be seen to wink of all the day-- When I was wont to think no harm all night And make a dark night too of half the day-- Which I hope well is not enrolled there : O , these are barren tasks , too hard to keep , Not to see ladies , study , fast , not sleep !
FERDINAND : Your oath is pass 'd to pass away from these .
BIRON : Let me say no , my liege , an if you please : I only swore to study with your grace And stay here in your court for three years ' space .
LONGAVILLE : You swore to that , Biron , and to the rest .
BIRON : By yea and nay , sir , then I swore in jest . What is the end of study ? let me know .
FERDINAND : Why , that to know , which else we should not know .
BIRON : Things hid and barr 'd , you mean , from common sense ?
FERDINAND : Ay , that is study 's godlike recompense .
BIRON : Come on , then ; I will swear to study so , To know the thing I am forbid to know : As thus , --to study where I well may dine , When I to feast expressly am forbid ; Or study where to meet some mistress fine , When mistresses from common sense are hid ; Or , having sworn too hard a keeping oath , Study to break it and not break my troth . If study 's gain be thus and this be so , Study knows that which yet it doth not know : Swear me to this , and I will ne 'er say no .
FERDINAND : These be the stops that hinder study quite And train our intellects to vain delight .
