MOTH : The sheep : the other two concludes it , --o , u . DON
ADRIANO DE ARMADO : Now , by the salt wave of the Mediterraneum , a sweet touch , a quick venue of wit ! snip , snap , quick and home ! it rejoiceth my intellect : true wit !
MOTH : Offered by a child to an old man ; which is wit-old .
HOLOFERNES : What is the figure ? what is the figure ?
MOTH : Horns .
HOLOFERNES : Thou disputest like an infant : go , whip thy gig .
MOTH : Lend me your horn to make one , and I will whip about your infamy circum circa , --a gig of a cuckold 's horn .
COSTARD : An I had but one penny in the world , thou shouldst have it to buy gingerbread : hold , there is the very remuneration I had of thy master , thou halfpenny purse of wit , thou pigeon-egg of discretion . O , an the heavens were so pleased that thou wert but my bastard , what a joyful father wouldst thou make me ! Go to ; thou hast it ad dunghill , at the fingers ' ends , as they say .
HOLOFERNES : O , I smell false Latin ; dunghill for unguem . DON
ADRIANO DE ARMADO : Arts-man , preambulate , we will be singled from the barbarous . Do you not educate youth at the charge-house on the top of the mountain ?
HOLOFERNES : Or mons , the hill . DON
ADRIANO DE ARMADO : At your sweet pleasure , for the mountain .
HOLOFERNES : I do , sans question . DON
ADRIANO DE ARMADO : Sir , it is the king 's most sweet pleasure and affection to congratulate the princess at her pavilion in the posteriors of this day , which the rude multitude call the afternoon .
HOLOFERNES : The posterior of the day , most generous sir , is liable , congruent and measurable for the afternoon : the word is well culled , chose , sweet and apt , I do assure you , sir , I do assure . DON
ADRIANO DE ARMADO : Sir , the king is a noble gentleman , and my familiar , I do assure ye , very good friend : for what is inward between us , let it pass . I do beseech thee , remember thy courtesy ; I beseech thee , apparel thy head : and among other important and most serious designs , and of great import indeed , too , but let that pass : for I must tell thee , it will please his grace , by the world , sometime to lean upon my poor shoulder , and with his royal finger , thus , dally with my excrement , with my mustachio ; but , sweet heart , let that pass . By the world , I recount no fable : some certain special honours it pleaseth his greatness to impart to Armado , a soldier , a man of travel , that hath seen the world ; but let that pass . The very all of all is , --but , sweet heart , I do implore secrecy , --that the king would have me present the princess , sweet chuck , with some delightful ostentation , or show , or pageant , or antique , or firework . Now , understanding that the curate and your sweet self are good at such eruptions and sudden breaking out of mirth , as it were , I have acquainted you withal , to the end to crave your assistance .
HOLOFERNES : Sir , you shall present before her the Nine Worthies . Sir , as concerning some entertainment of time , some show in the posterior of this day , to be rendered by our assistants , at the king 's command , and this most gallant , illustrate , and learned gentleman , before the princess ; I say none so fit as to present the Nine Worthies .
SIR NATHANIEL : Where will you find men worthy enough to present them ?
HOLOFERNES : Joshua , yourself ; myself and this gallant gentleman , Judas Maccabaeus ; this swain , because of his great limb or joint , shall pass Pompey the Great ; the page , Hercules , -- DON
