LARTIUS : Now the fair goddess , Fortune , Fall deep in love with thee ; and her great charms Misguide thy opposers ' swords ! Bold gentleman , Prosperity be thy page !
MARCIUS : Thy friend no less Than those she placeth highest ! So , farewell .
LARTIUS : Thou worthiest Marcius ! Exit MARCIUS Go , sound thy trumpet in the market-place ; Call thither all the officers o ' the town , Where they shall know our mind : away ! Enter COMINIUS , as it were in retire , with soldiers
COMINIUS : Breathe you , my friends : well fought ; we are come off Like Romans , neither foolish in our stands , Nor cowardly in retire : believe me , sirs , We shall be charged again . Whiles we have struck , By interims and conveying gusts we have heard The charges of our friends . Ye Roman gods ! Lead their successes as we wish our own , That both our powers , with smiling fronts encountering , May give you thankful sacrifice . Enter a Messenger Thy news ?
Messenger : The citizens of Corioli have issued , And given to Lartius and to Marcius battle : I saw our party to their trenches driven , And then I came away .
COMINIUS : Though thou speak 'st truth , Methinks thou speak 'st not well . How long is 't since ?
Messenger : Above an hour , my lord .
COMINIUS : ' Tis not a mile ; briefly we heard their drums : How couldst thou in a mile confound an hour , And bring thy news so late ?
Messenger : Spies of the Volsces Held me in chase , that I was forced to wheel Three or four miles about , else had I , sir , Half an hour since brought my report .
COMINIUS : Who 's yonder , That does appear as he were flay 'd ? O gods He has the stamp of Marcius ; and I have Before-time seen him thus .
MARCIUS : Come I too late ?
COMINIUS : The shepherd knows not thunder from a tabour More than I know the sound of Marcius ' tongue From every meaner man . Enter MARCIUS
MARCIUS : Come I too late ?
COMINIUS : Ay , if you come not in the blood of others , But mantled in your own .
MARCIUS : O , let me clip ye In arms as sound as when I woo 'd , in heart As merry as when our nuptial day was done , And tapers burn 'd to bedward !
COMINIUS : Flower of warriors , How is it with Titus Lartius ?
MARCIUS : As with a man busied about decrees : Condemning some to death , and some to exile ; Ransoming him , or pitying , threatening the other ; Holding Corioli in the name of Rome , Even like a fawning greyhound in the leash , To let him slip at will .
COMINIUS : Where is that slave Which told me they had beat you to your trenches ? Where is he ? call him hither .
MARCIUS : Let him alone ; He did inform the truth : but for our gentlemen , The common file--a plague ! tribunes for them ! -- The mouse ne 'er shunn 'd the cat as they did budge From rascals worse than they .
COMINIUS : But how prevail 'd you ?
MARCIUS : Will the time serve to tell ? I do not think . Where is the enemy ? are you lords o ' the field ? If not , why cease you till you are so ?
COMINIUS : Marcius , We have at disadvantage fought and did Retire to win our purpose .
MARCIUS : How lies their battle ? know you on which side They have placed their men of trust ?
COMINIUS : As I guess , Marcius , Their bands i ' the vaward are the Antiates , Of their best trust ; o 'er them Aufidius , Their very heart of hope .
