CORIOLANUS : It is apart That I shall blush in acting , and might well Be taken from the people .
BRUTUS : Mark you that ?
CORIOLANUS : To brag unto them , thus I did , and thus ; Show them the unaching scars which I should hide , As if I had received them for the hire Of their breath only !
MENENIUS : Do not stand upon 't . We recommend to you , tribunes of the people , Our purpose to them : and to our noble consul Wish we all joy and honour .
Senators : To Coriolanus come all joy and honour !
BRUTUS : You see how he intends to use the people .
SICINIUS : May they perceive 's intent ! He will require them , As if he did contemn what he requested Should be in them to give .
BRUTUS : Come , we 'll inform them Of our proceedings here : on the marketplace , I know , they do attend us . Enter seven or eight Citizens
First Citizen : Once , if he do require our voices , we ought not to deny him .
Second Citizen : We may , sir , if we will .
Third Citizen : We have power in ourselves to do it , but it is a power that we have no power to do ; for if he show us his wounds and tell us his deeds , we are to put our tongues into those wounds and speak for them ; so , if he tell us his noble deeds , we must also tell him our noble acceptance of them . Ingratitude is monstrous , and for the multitude to be ingrateful , were to make a monster of the multitude : of the which we being members , should bring ourselves to be monstrous members .
First Citizen : And to make us no better thought of , a little help will serve ; for once we stood up about the corn , he himself stuck not to call us the many-headed multitude .
Third Citizen : We have been called so of many ; not that our heads are some brown , some black , some auburn , some bald , but that our wits are so diversely coloured : and truly I think if all our wits were to issue out of one skull , they would fly east , west , north , south , and their consent of one direct way should be at once to all the points o ' the compass .
Second Citizen : Think you so ? Which way do you judge my wit would fly ?
Third Citizen : Nay , your wit will not so soon out as another man 's will ; ' tis strongly wedged up in a block-head , but if it were at liberty , ' twould , sure , southward .
Second Citizen : Why that way ?
Third Citizen : To lose itself in a fog , where being three parts melted away with rotten dews , the fourth would return for conscience sake , to help to get thee a wife .
Second Citizen : You are never without your tricks : you may , you may .
Third Citizen : Are you all resolved to give your voices ? But that 's no matter , the greater part carries it . I say , if he would incline to the people , there was never a worthier man . Enter CORIOLANUS in a gown of humility , with MENENIUS Here he comes , and in the gown of humility : mark his behavior . We are not to stay all together , but to come by him where he stands , by ones , by twos , and by threes . He 's to make his requests by particulars ; wherein every one of us has a single honour , in giving him our own voices with our own tongues : therefore follow me , and I direct you how you shall go by him .
All : Content , content .
MENENIUS : O sir , you are not right : have you not known The worthiest men have done 't ?
