MARCIUS : Thanks . What 's the matter , you dissentious rogues , That , rubbing the poor itch of your opinion , Make yourselves scabs ?
First Citizen : We have ever your good word .
MARCIUS : He that will give good words to thee will flatter Beneath abhorring . What would you have , you curs , That like nor peace nor war ? the one affrights you , The other makes you proud . He that trusts to you , Where he should find you lions , finds you hares ; Where foxes , geese : you are no surer , no , Than is the coal of fire upon the ice , Or hailstone in the sun . Your virtue is To make him worthy whose offence subdues him And curse that justice did it . Who deserves greatness Deserves your hate ; and your affections are A sick man 's appetite , who desires most that Which would increase his evil . He that depends Upon your favours swims with fins of lead And hews down oaks with rushes . Hang ye ! Trust Ye ? With every minute you do change a mind , And call him noble that was now your hate , Him vile that was your garland . What 's the matter , That in these several places of the city You cry against the noble senate , who , Under the gods , keep you in awe , which else Would feed on one another ? What 's their seeking ?
MENENIUS : For corn at their own rates ; whereof , they say , The city is well stored .
MARCIUS : Hang ' em ! They say ! They 'll sit by the fire , and presume to know What 's done i ' the Capitol ; who 's like to rise , Who thrives and who declines ; side factions and give out Conjectural marriages ; making parties strong And feebling such as stand not in their liking Below their cobbled shoes . They say there 's grain enough ! Would the nobility lay aside their ruth , And let me use my sword , I 'll make a quarry With thousands of these quarter 'd slaves , as high As I could pick my lance .
MENENIUS : Nay , these are almost thoroughly persuaded ; For though abundantly they lack discretion , Yet are they passing cowardly . But , I beseech you , What says the other troop ?
MARCIUS : They are dissolved : hang ' em ! They said they were an-hungry ; sigh 'd forth proverbs , That hunger broke stone walls , that dogs must eat , That meat was made for mouths , that the gods sent not Corn for the rich men only : with these shreds They vented their complainings ; which being answer 'd , And a petition granted them , a strange one-- To break the heart of generosity , And make bold power look pale--they threw their caps As they would hang them on the horns o ' the moon , Shouting their emulation .
MENENIUS : What is granted them ?
MARCIUS : Five tribunes to defend their vulgar wisdoms , Of their own choice : one 's Junius Brutus , Sicinius Velutus , and I know not-- ' Sdeath ! The rabble should have first unroof 'd the city , Ere so prevail 'd with me : it will in time Win upon power and throw forth greater themes For insurrection 's arguing .
MENENIUS : This is strange .
MARCIUS : Go , get you home , you fragments ! Enter a Messenger , hastily
Messenger : Where 's Caius Marcius ?
MARCIUS : Here : what 's the matter ?
Messenger : The news is , sir , the Volsces are in arms .
MARCIUS : I am glad on ' t : then we shall ha ' means to vent Our musty superfluity . See , our best elders . Enter COMINIUS , TITUS LARTIUS , and other Senators ; JUNIUS BRUTUS and SICINIUS VELUTUS
First Senator : Marcius , ' tis true that you have lately told us ; The Volsces are in arms .
MARCIUS : They have a leader , Tullus Aufidius , that will put you to ' t . I sin in envying his nobility , And were I any thing but what I am , I would wish me only he .
COMINIUS : You have fought together .
