Lieutenant : Sir , I beseech you , think you he 'll carry Rome ?
AUFIDIUS : All places yield to him ere he sits down ; And the nobility of Rome are his : The senators and patricians love him too : The tribunes are no soldiers ; and their people Will be as rash in the repeal , as hasty To expel him thence . I think he 'll be to Rome As is the osprey to the fish , who takes it By sovereignty of nature . First he was A noble servant to them ; but he could not Carry his honours even : whether ' twas pride , Which out of daily fortune ever taints The happy man ; whether defect of judgment , To fail in the disposing of those chances Which he was lord of ; or whether nature , Not to be other than one thing , not moving From the casque to the cushion , but commanding peace Even with the same austerity and garb As he controll 'd the war ; but one of these-- As he hath spices of them all , not all , For I dare so far free him--made him fear 'd , So hated , and so banish 'd : but he has a merit , To choke it in the utterance . So our virtues Lie in the interpretation of the time : And power , unto itself most commendable , Hath not a tomb so evident as a chair To extol what it hath done . One fire drives out one fire ; one nail , one nail ; Rights by rights falter , strengths by strengths do fail . Come , let 's away . When , Caius , Rome is thine , Thou art poor 'st of all ; then shortly art thou mine . Enter MENENIUS , COMINIUS , SICINIUS , BRUTUS , and others
MENENIUS : No , I 'll not go : you hear what he hath said Which was sometime his general ; who loved him In a most dear particular . He call 'd me father : But what o ' that ? Go , you that banish 'd him ; A mile before his tent fall down , and knee The way into his mercy : nay , if he coy 'd To hear Cominius speak , I 'll keep at home .
COMINIUS : He would not seem to know me .
MENENIUS : Do you hear ?
COMINIUS : Yet one time he did call me by my name : I urged our old acquaintance , and the drops That we have bled together . Coriolanus He would not answer to : forbad all names ; He was a kind of nothing , titleless , Till he had forged himself a name o ' the fire Of burning Rome .
MENENIUS : Why , so : you have made good work ! A pair of tribunes that have rack 'd for Rome , To make coals cheap , --a noble memory !
COMINIUS : I minded him how royal ' twas to pardon When it was less expected : he replied , It was a bare petition of a state To one whom they had punish 'd .
MENENIUS : Very well : Could he say less ?
COMINIUS : I offer 'd to awaken his regard For 's private friends : his answer to me was , He could not stay to pick them in a pile Of noisome musty chaff : he said ' twas folly , For one poor grain or two , to leave unburnt , And still to nose the offence .
MENENIUS : For one poor grain or two ! I am one of those ; his mother , wife , his child , And this brave fellow too , we are the grains : You are the musty chaff ; and you are smelt Above the moon : we must be burnt for you .
SICINIUS : Nay , pray , be patient : if you refuse your aid In this so never-needed help , yet do not Upbraid 's with our distress . But , sure , if you Would be your country 's pleader , your good tongue , More than the instant army we can make , Might stop our countryman .
MENENIUS : No , I 'll not meddle .
SICINIUS : Pray you , go to him .
MENENIUS : What should I do ?
