MENENIUS : I am , as thy general is .
First Senator : Then you should hate Rome , as he does . Can you , when you have pushed out your gates the very defender of them , and , in a violent popular ignorance , given your enemy your shield , think to front his revenges with the easy groans of old women , the virginal palms of your daughters , or with the palsied intercession of such a decayed dotant as you seem to be ? Can you think to blow out the intended fire your city is ready to flame in , with such weak breath as this ? No , you are deceived ; therefore , back to Rome , and prepare for your execution : you are condemned , our general has sworn you out of reprieve and pardon .
MENENIUS : Sirrah , if thy captain knew I were here , he would use me with estimation .
Second Senator : Come , my captain knows you not .
MENENIUS : I mean , thy general .
First Senator : My general cares not for you . Back , I say , go ; lest I let forth your half-pint of blood ; back , --that 's the utmost of your having : back .
MENENIUS : Nay , but , fellow , fellow , -- Enter CORIOLANUS and AUFIDIUS
CORIOLANUS : What 's the matter ?
MENENIUS : Now , you companion , I 'll say an errand for you : You shall know now that I am in estimation ; you shall perceive that a Jack guardant cannot office me from my son Coriolanus : guess , but by my entertainment with him , if thou standest not i ' the state of hanging , or of some death more long in spectatorship , and crueller in suffering ; behold now presently , and swoon for what 's to come upon thee . To CORIOLANUS The glorious gods sit in hourly synod about thy particular prosperity , and love thee no worse than thy old father Menenius does ! O my son , my son ! thou art preparing fire for us ; look thee , here 's water to quench it . I was hardly moved to come to thee ; but being assured none but myself could move thee , I have been blown out of your gates with sighs ; and conjure thee to pardon Rome , and thy petitionary countrymen . The good gods assuage thy wrath , and turn the dregs of it upon this varlet here , --this , who , like a block , hath denied my access to thee .
CORIOLANUS : Away !
MENENIUS : How ! away !
CORIOLANUS : Wife , mother , child , I know not . My affairs Are servanted to others : though I owe My revenge properly , my remission lies In Volscian breasts . That we have been familiar , Ingrate forgetfulness shall poison , rather Than pity note how much . Therefore , be gone . Mine ears against your suits are stronger than Your gates against my force . Yet , for I loved thee , Take this along ; I writ it for thy sake Gives a letter And would have rent it . Another word , Menenius , I will not hear thee speak . This man , Aufidius , Was my beloved in Rome : yet thou behold 'st !
AUFIDIUS : You keep a constant temper .
First Senator : Now , sir , is your name Menenius ?
Second Senator : ' Tis a spell , you see , of much power : you know the way home again .
First Senator : Do you hear how we are shent for keeping your greatness back ?
Second Senator : What cause , do you think , I have to swoon ?
MENENIUS : I neither care for the world nor your general : for such things as you , I can scarce think there 's any , ye 're so slight . He that hath a will to die by himself fears it not from another : let your general do his worst . For you , be that you are , long ; and your misery increase with your age ! I say to you , as I was said to , Away ! Exit
First Senator : A noble fellow , I warrant him .
