VOLUMNIA : Pray , be counsell 'd : I have a heart as little apt as yours , But yet a brain that leads my use of anger To better vantage .
MENENIUS : Well said , noble woman ? Before he should thus stoop to the herd , but that The violent fit o ' the time craves it as physic For the whole state , I would put mine armour on , Which I can scarcely bear .
CORIOLANUS : What must I do ?
MENENIUS : Return to the tribunes .
CORIOLANUS : Well , what then ? what then ?
MENENIUS : Repent what you have spoke .
CORIOLANUS : For them ! I cannot do it to the gods ; Must I then do 't to them ?
VOLUMNIA : You are too absolute ; Though therein you can never be too noble , But when extremities speak . I have heard you say , Honour and policy , like unsever 'd friends , I ' the war do grow together : grant that , and tell me , In peace what each of them by the other lose , That they combine not there .
CORIOLANUS : Tush , tush !
MENENIUS : A good demand .
VOLUMNIA : If it be honour in your wars to seem The same you are not , which , for your best ends , You adopt your policy , how is it less or worse , That it shall hold companionship in peace With honour , as in war , since that to both It stands in like request ?
CORIOLANUS : Why force you this ?
VOLUMNIA : Because that now it lies you on to speak To the people ; not by your own instruction , Nor by the matter which your heart prompts you , But with such words that are but rooted in Your tongue , though but bastards and syllables Of no allowance to your bosom 's truth . Now , this no more dishonours you at all Than to take in a town with gentle words , Which else would put you to your fortune and The hazard of much blood . I would dissemble with my nature where My fortunes and my friends at stake required I should do so in honour : I am in this , Your wife , your son , these senators , the nobles ; And you will rather show our general louts How you can frown than spend a fawn upon ' em , For the inheritance of their loves and safeguard Of what that want might ruin .
MENENIUS : Noble lady ! Come , go with us ; speak fair : you may salve so , Not what is dangerous present , but the loss Of what is past .
VOLUMNIA : I prithee now , my son , Go to them , with this bonnet in thy hand ; And thus far having stretch 'd it--here be with them-- Thy knee bussing the stones--for in such business Action is eloquence , and the eyes of the ignorant More learned than the ears--waving thy head , Which often , thus , correcting thy stout heart , Now humble as the ripest mulberry That will not hold the handling : or say to them , Thou art their soldier , and being bred in broils Hast not the soft way which , thou dost confess , Were fit for thee to use as they to claim , In asking their good loves , but thou wilt frame Thyself , forsooth , hereafter theirs , so far As thou hast power and person .
MENENIUS : This but done , Even as she speaks , why , their hearts were yours ; For they have pardons , being ask 'd , as free As words to little purpose .
VOLUMNIA : Prithee now , Go , and be ruled : although I know thou hadst rather Follow thine enemy in a fiery gulf Than flatter him in a bower . Here is Cominius . Enter COMINIUS
COMINIUS : I have been i ' the market-place ; and , sir , ' tis fit You make strong party , or defend yourself By calmness or by absence : all 's in anger .
MENENIUS : Only fair speech .
COMINIUS : I think ' twill serve , if he Can thereto frame his spirit .
