AUFIDIUS : O , doubt not that ; I speak from certainties . Nay , more , Some parcels of their power are forth already , And only hitherward . I leave your honours . If we and Caius Marcius chance to meet , ' Tis sworn between us we shall ever strike Till one can do no more .
All : The gods assist you !
AUFIDIUS : And keep your honours safe !
First Senator : Farewell .
Second Senator : Farewell .
All : Farewell . Enter VOLUMNIA and VIRGILIA they set them down on two low stools , and sew
VOLUMNIA : I pray you , daughter , sing ; or express yourself in a more comfortable sort : if my son were my husband , I should freelier rejoice in that absence wherein he won honour than in the embracements of his bed where he would show most love . When yet he was but tender-bodied and the only son of my womb , when youth with comeliness plucked all gaze his way , when for a day of kings ' entreaties a mother should not sell him an hour from her beholding , I , considering how honour would become such a person. that it was no better than picture-like to hang by the wall , if renown made it not stir , was pleased to let him seek danger where he was like to find fame . To a cruel war I sent him ; from whence he returned , his brows bound with oak . I tell thee , daughter , I sprang not more in joy at first hearing he was a man-child than now in first seeing he had proved himself a man .
VIRGILIA : But had he died in the business , madam ; how then ?
VOLUMNIA : Then his good report should have been my son ; I therein would have found issue . Hear me profess sincerely : had I a dozen sons , each in my love alike and none less dear than thine and my good Marcius , I had rather had eleven die nobly for their country than one voluptuously surfeit out of action . Enter a Gentlewoman
Gentlewoman : Madam , the Lady Valeria is come to visit you .
VIRGILIA : Beseech you , give me leave to retire myself .
VOLUMNIA : Indeed , you shall not . Methinks I hear hither your husband 's drum , See him pluck Aufidius down by the hair , As children from a bear , the Volsces shunning him : Methinks I see him stamp thus , and call thus : ' Come on , you cowards ! you were got in fear , Though you were born in Rome : ' his bloody brow With his mail 'd hand then wiping , forth he goes , Like to a harvest-man that 's task 'd to mow Or all or lose his hire .
VIRGILIA : His bloody brow ! O Jupiter , no blood !
VOLUMNIA : Away , you fool ! it more becomes a man Than gilt his trophy : the breasts of Hecuba , When she did suckle Hector , look 'd not lovelier Than Hector 's forehead when it spit forth blood At Grecian sword , contemning . Tell Valeria , We are fit to bid her welcome . Exit Gentlewoman
VIRGILIA : Heavens bless my lord from fell Aufidius !
VOLUMNIA : He 'll beat Aufidius ' head below his knee And tread upon his neck . Enter VALERIA , with an Usher and Gentlewoman
VALERIA : My ladies both , good day to you .
VOLUMNIA : Sweet madam .
VIRGILIA : I am glad to see your ladyship .
VALERIA : How do you both ? you are manifest house-keepers . What are you sewing here ? A fine spot , in good faith . How does your little son ?
VIRGILIA : I thank your ladyship ; well , good madam .
VOLUMNIA : He had rather see the swords , and hear a drum , than look upon his school-master .
