MARCIUS : O , they are at it !
LARTIUS : Their noise be our instruction . Ladders , ho ! Enter the army of the Volsces
MARCIUS : They fear us not , but issue forth their city . Now put your shields before your hearts , and fight With hearts more proof than shields . Advance , brave Titus : They do disdain us much beyond our thoughts , Which makes me sweat with wrath . Come on , my fellows : He that retires I 'll take him for a Volsce , And he shall feel mine edge . Alarum . The Romans are beat back to their trenches . Re-enter MARCIUS cursing
MARCIUS : All the contagion of the south light on you , You shames of Rome ! you herd of--Boils and plagues Plaster you o 'er , that you may be abhorr 'd Further than seen and one infect another Against the wind a mile ! You souls of geese , That bear the shapes of men , how have you run From slaves that apes would beat ! Pluto and hell ! All hurt behind ; backs red , and faces pale With flight and agued fear ! Mend and charge home , Or , by the fires of heaven , I 'll leave the foe And make my wars on you : look to 't : come on ; If you 'll stand fast , we 'll beat them to their wives , As they us to our trenches followed . Another alarum . The Volsces fly , and MARCIUS follows them to the gates So , now the gates are ope : now prove good seconds : ' Tis for the followers fortune widens them , Not for the fliers : mark me , and do the like . Enters the gates
First Soldier : Fool-hardiness ; not I.
Second Soldier : Nor I. MARCIUS is shut in
First Soldier : See , they have shut him in .
All : To the pot , I warrant him . Alarum continues Re-enter TITUS LARTIUS
LARTIUS : What is become of Marcius ?
All : Slain , sir , doubtless .
First Soldier : Following the fliers at the very heels , With them he enters ; who , upon the sudden , Clapp 'd to their gates : he is himself alone , To answer all the city .
LARTIUS : O noble fellow ! Who sensibly outdares his senseless sword , And , when it bows , stands up . Thou art left , Marcius : A carbuncle entire , as big as thou art , Were not so rich a jewel . Thou wast a soldier Even to Cato 's wish , not fierce and terrible Only in strokes ; but , with thy grim looks and The thunder-like percussion of thy sounds , Thou madst thine enemies shake , as if the world Were feverous and did tremble . Re-enter MARCIUS , bleeding , assaulted by the enemy
First Soldier : Look , sir .
LARTIUS : O , ' tis Marcius ! Let 's fetch him off , or make remain alike . They fight , and all enter the city Enter certain Romans , with spoils
First Roman : This will I carry to Rome .
Second Roman : And I this .
Third Roman : A murrain on 't ! I took this for silver . Alarum continues still afar off Enter MARCIUS and TITUS LARTIUS with a trumpet
MARCIUS : See here these movers that do prize their hours At a crack 'd drachm ! Cushions , leaden spoons , Irons of a doit , doublets that hangmen would Bury with those that wore them , these base slaves , Ere yet the fight be done , pack up : down with them ! And hark , what noise the general makes ! To him ! There is the man of my soul 's hate , Aufidius , Piercing our Romans : then , valiant Titus , take Convenient numbers to make good the city ; Whilst I , with those that have the spirit , will haste To help Cominius .
LARTIUS : Worthy sir , thou bleed 'st ; Thy exercise hath been too violent for A second course of fight .
