COMINIUS : You shall not be The grave of your deserving ; Rome must know The value of her own : ' twere a concealment Worse than a theft , no less than a traducement , To hide your doings ; and to silence that , Which , to the spire and top of praises vouch 'd , Would seem but modest : therefore , I beseech you In sign of what you are , not to reward What you have done--before our army hear me .
MARCIUS : I have some wounds upon me , and they smart To hear themselves remember 'd .
COMINIUS : Should they not , Well might they fester ' gainst ingratitude , And tent themselves with death . Of all the horses , Whereof we have ta 'en good and good store , of all The treasure in this field achieved and city , We render you the tenth , to be ta 'en forth , Before the common distribution , at Your only choice .
MARCIUS : I thank you , general ; But cannot make my heart consent to take A bribe to pay my sword : I do refuse it ; And stand upon my common part with those That have beheld the doing . A long flourish . They all cry ' Marcius ! Marcius ! ' cast up their caps and lances : COMINIUS and LARTIUS stand bare
MARCIUS : May these same instruments , which you profane , Never sound more ! when drums and trumpets shall I ' the field prove flatterers , let courts and cities be Made all of false-faced soothing ! When steel grows soft as the parasite 's silk , Let him be made a coverture for the wars ! No more , I say ! For that I have not wash 'd My nose that bled , or foil 'd some debile wretch.-- Which , without note , here 's many else have done , -- You shout me forth In acclamations hyperbolical ; As if I loved my little should be dieted In praises sauced with lies .
COMINIUS : Too modest are you ; More cruel to your good report than grateful To us that give you truly : by your patience , If ' gainst yourself you be incensed , we 'll put you , Like one that means his proper harm , in manacles , Then reason safely with you . Therefore , be it known , As to us , to all the world , that Caius Marcius Wears this war 's garland : in token of the which , My noble steed , known to the camp , I give him , With all his trim belonging ; and from this time , For what he did before Corioli , call him , With all the applause and clamour of the host , CAIUS MARCIUS CORIOLANUS ! Bear The addition nobly ever ! Flourish . Trumpets sound , and drums
All : Caius Marcius Coriolanus !
CORIOLANUS : I will go wash ; And when my face is fair , you shall perceive Whether I blush or no : howbeit , I thank you . I mean to stride your steed , and at all times To undercrest your good addition To the fairness of my power .
COMINIUS : So , to our tent ; Where , ere we do repose us , we will write To Rome of our success . You , Titus Lartius , Must to Corioli back : send us to Rome The best , with whom we may articulate , For their own good and ours .
LARTIUS : I shall , my lord .
CORIOLANUS : The gods begin to mock me . I , that now Refused most princely gifts , am bound to beg Of my lord general .
COMINIUS : Take 't ; ' tis yours . What is 't ?
CORIOLANUS : I sometime lay here in Corioli At a poor man 's house ; he used me kindly : He cried to me ; I saw him prisoner ; But then Aufidius was with in my view , And wrath o 'erwhelm 'd my pity : I request you To give my poor host freedom .
COMINIUS : O , well begg 'd ! Were he the butcher of my son , he should Be free as is the wind . Deliver him , Titus .
LARTIUS : Marcius , his name ?
