AEdile : Worthy tribunes , There is a slave , whom we have put in prison , Reports , the Volsces with two several powers Are enter 'd in the Roman territories , And with the deepest malice of the war Destroy what lies before ' em .
MENENIUS : ' Tis Aufidius , Who , hearing of our Marcius ' banishment , Thrusts forth his horns again into the world ; Which were inshell 'd when Marcius stood for Rome , And durst not once peep out .
SICINIUS : Come , what talk you Of Marcius ?
BRUTUS : Go see this rumourer whipp 'd . It cannot be The Volsces dare break with us .
MENENIUS : Cannot be ! We have record that very well it can , And three examples of the like have been Within my age . But reason with the fellow , Before you punish him , where he heard this , Lest you shall chance to whip your information And beat the messenger who bids beware Of what is to be dreaded .
SICINIUS : Tell not me : I know this cannot be .
BRUTUS : Not possible . Enter a Messenger
Messenger : The nobles in great earnestness are going All to the senate-house : some news is come That turns their countenances .
SICINIUS : ' Tis this slave ; -- Go whip him , ' fore the people 's eyes : --his raising ; Nothing but his report .
Messenger : Yes , worthy sir , The slave 's report is seconded ; and more , More fearful , is deliver 'd .
SICINIUS : What more fearful ?
Messenger : It is spoke freely out of many mouths-- How probable I do not know--that Marcius , Join 'd with Aufidius , leads a power ' gainst Rome , And vows revenge as spacious as between The young 'st and oldest thing .
SICINIUS : This is most likely !
BRUTUS : Raised only , that the weaker sort may wish Good Marcius home again .
SICINIUS : The very trick on 't .
MENENIUS : This is unlikely : He and Aufidius can no more atone Than violentest contrariety . Enter a second Messenger
Second Messenger : You are sent for to the senate : A fearful army , led by Caius Marcius Associated with Aufidius , rages Upon our territories ; and have already O 'erborne their way , consumed with fire , and took What lay before them . Enter COMINIUS
COMINIUS : O , you have made good work !
MENENIUS : What news ? what news ?
COMINIUS : You have holp to ravish your own daughters and To melt the city leads upon your pates , To see your wives dishonour 'd to your noses , --
MENENIUS : What 's the news ? what 's the news ?
COMINIUS : Your temples burned in their cement , and Your franchises , whereon you stood , confined Into an auger 's bore .
MENENIUS : Pray now , your news ? You have made fair work , I fear me.--Pray , your news ? -- If Marcius should be join 'd with Volscians , --
COMINIUS : If ! He is their god : he leads them like a thing Made by some other deity than nature , That shapes man better ; and they follow him , Against us brats , with no less confidence Than boys pursuing summer butterflies , Or butchers killing flies .
MENENIUS : You have made good work , You and your apron-men ; you that stood so up much on the voice of occupation and The breath of garlic-eaters !
COMINIUS : He will shake Your Rome about your ears .
MENENIUS : As Hercules Did shake down mellow fruit . You have made fair work !
BRUTUS : But is this true , sir ?
COMINIUS : Ay ; and you 'll look pale Before you find it other . All the regions Do smilingly revolt ; and who resist Are mock 'd for valiant ignorance , And perish constant fools . Who is 't can blame him ? Your enemies and his find something in him .
MENENIUS : We are all undone , unless The noble man have mercy .
