Sixth Citizen : He has done nobly , and cannot go without any honest man 's voice .
Seventh Citizen : Therefore let him be consul : the gods give him joy , and make him good friend to the people !
All Citizens : Amen , amen . God save thee , noble consul !
CORIOLANUS : Worthy voices ! Re-enter MENENIUS , with BRUTUS and SICINIUS
MENENIUS : You have stood your limitation ; and the tribunes Endue you with the people 's voice : remains That , in the official marks invested , you Anon do meet the senate .
CORIOLANUS : Is this done ?
SICINIUS : The custom of request you have discharged : The people do admit you , and are summon 'd To meet anon , upon your approbation .
CORIOLANUS : Where ? at the senate-house ?
SICINIUS : There , Coriolanus .
CORIOLANUS : May I change these garments ?
SICINIUS : You may , sir .
CORIOLANUS : That I 'll straight do ; and , knowing myself again , Repair to the senate-house .
MENENIUS : I 'll keep you company . Will you along ?
BRUTUS : We stay here for the people .
SICINIUS : Fare you well . He has it now , and by his looks methink ' Tis warm at ' s heart .
BRUTUS : With a proud heart he wore his humble weeds. will you dismiss the people ? Re-enter Citizens
SICINIUS : How now , my masters ! have you chose this man ?
First Citizen : He has our voices , sir .
BRUTUS : We pray the gods he may deserve your loves .
Second Citizen : Amen , sir : to my poor unworthy notice , He mock 'd us when he begg 'd our voices .
Third Citizen : Certainly He flouted us downright .
First Citizen : No , ' tis his kind of speech : he did not mock us .
Second Citizen : Not one amongst us , save yourself , but says He used us scornfully : he should have show 'd us His marks of merit , wounds received for 's country .
SICINIUS : Why , so he did , I am sure .
Citizens : No , no ; no man saw ' em .
Third Citizen : He said he had wounds , which he could show in private ; And with his hat , thus waving it in scorn , ' I would be consul , ' says he : ' aged custom , But by your voices , will not so permit me ; Your voices therefore . ' When we granted that , Here was ' I thank you for your voices : thank you : Your most sweet voices : now you have left your voices , I have no further with you . ' Was not this mockery ?
SICINIUS : Why either were you ignorant to see 't , Or , seeing it , of such childish friendliness To yield your voices ?
BRUTUS : Could you not have told him As you were lesson 'd , when he had no power , But was a petty servant to the state , He was your enemy , ever spake against Your liberties and the charters that you bear I ' the body of the weal ; and now , arriving A place of potency and sway o ' the state , If he should still malignantly remain Fast foe to the plebeii , your voices might Be curses to yourselves ? You should have said That as his worthy deeds did claim no less Than what he stood for , so his gracious nature Would think upon you for your voices and Translate his malice towards you into love , Standing your friendly lord .
SICINIUS : Thus to have said , As you were fore-advised , had touch 'd his spirit And tried his inclination ; from him pluck 'd Either his gracious promise , which you might , As cause had call 'd you up , have held him to Or else it would have gall 'd his surly nature , Which easily endures not article Tying him to aught ; so putting him to rage , You should have ta 'en the advantage of his choler And pass 'd him unelected .
