MENENIUS : Either you must Confess yourselves wondrous malicious , Or be accused of folly . I shall tell you A pretty tale : it may be you have heard it ; But , since it serves my purpose , I will venture To stale ' t a little more .
First Citizen : Well , I 'll hear it , sir : yet you must not think to fob off our disgrace with a tale : but , an ' t please you , deliver .
MENENIUS : There was a time when all the body 's members Rebell 'd against the belly , thus accused it : That only like a gulf it did remain I ' the midst o ' the body , idle and unactive , Still cupboarding the viand , never bearing Like labour with the rest , where the other instruments Did see and hear , devise , instruct , walk , feel , And , mutually participate , did minister Unto the appetite and affection common Of the whole body . The belly answer 'd--
First Citizen : Well , sir , what answer made the belly ?
MENENIUS : Sir , I shall tell you . With a kind of smile , Which ne 'er came from the lungs , but even thus-- For , look you , I may make the belly smile As well as speak--it tauntingly replied To the discontented members , the mutinous parts That envied his receipt ; even so most fitly As you malign our senators for that They are not such as you .
First Citizen : Your belly 's answer ? What ! The kingly-crowned head , the vigilant eye , The counsellor heart , the arm our soldier , Our steed the leg , the tongue our trumpeter . With other muniments and petty helps In this our fabric , if that they--
MENENIUS : What then ? ' Fore me , this fellow speaks ! What then ? what then ?
First Citizen : Should by the cormorant belly be restrain 'd , Who is the sink o ' the body , --
MENENIUS : Well , what then ?
First Citizen : The former agents , if they did complain , What could the belly answer ?
MENENIUS : I will tell you If you 'll bestow a small--of what you have little-- Patience awhile , you 'll hear the belly 's answer .
First Citizen : Ye 're long about it .
MENENIUS : Note me this , good friend ; Your most grave belly was deliberate , Not rash like his accusers , and thus answer 'd : ' True is it , my incorporate friends , ' quoth he , ' That I receive the general food at first , Which you do live upon ; and fit it is , Because I am the store-house and the shop Of the whole body : but , if you do remember , I send it through the rivers of your blood , Even to the court , the heart , to the seat o ' the brain ; And , through the cranks and offices of man , The strongest nerves and small inferior veins From me receive that natural competency Whereby they live : and though that all at once , You , my good friends , ' --this says the belly , mark me , --
First Citizen : Ay , sir ; well , well .
MENENIUS : ' Though all at once cannot See what I do deliver out to each , Yet I can make my audit up , that all From me do back receive the flour of all , And leave me but the bran . ' What say you to 't ?
First Citizen : It was an answer : how apply you this ?
MENENIUS : The senators of Rome are this good belly , And you the mutinous members ; for examine Their counsels and their cares , digest things rightly Touching the weal o ' the common , you shall find No public benefit which you receive But it proceeds or comes from them to you And no way from yourselves . What do you think , You , the great toe of this assembly ?
First Citizen : I the great toe ! why the great toe ?
