First Senator : Then , worthy Marcius , Attend upon Cominius to these wars .
COMINIUS : It is your former promise .
MARCIUS : Sir , it is ; And I am constant . Titus Lartius , thou Shalt see me once more strike at Tullus ' face . What , art thou stiff ? stand 'st out ?
TITUS : No , Caius Marcius ; I 'll lean upon one crutch and fight with t 'other , Ere stay behind this business .
MENENIUS : O , true-bred !
First Senator : Your company to the Capitol ; where , I know , Our greatest friends attend us .
TITUS : Lead you on . To MARCIUS Right worthy you priority .
COMINIUS : Noble Marcius !
First Senator : Hence to your homes ; be gone !
MARCIUS : Nay , let them follow : The Volsces have much corn ; take these rats thither To gnaw their garners . Worshipful mutiners , Your valour puts well forth : pray , follow .
SICINIUS : Was ever man so proud as is this Marcius ?
BRUTUS : He has no equal .
SICINIUS : When we were chosen tribunes for the people , --
BRUTUS : Mark 'd you his lip and eyes ?
SICINIUS : Nay. but his taunts .
BRUTUS : Being moved , he will not spare to gird the gods .
SICINIUS : Be-mock the modest moon .
BRUTUS : The present wars devour him : he is grown Too proud to be so valiant .
SICINIUS : Such a nature , Tickled with good success , disdains the shadow Which he treads on at noon : but I do wonder His insolence can brook to be commanded Under Cominius .
BRUTUS : Fame , at the which he aims , In whom already he 's well graced , can not Better be held nor more attain 'd than by A place below the first : for what miscarries Shall be the general 's fault , though he perform To the utmost of a man , and giddy censure Will then cry out of Marcius ' O if he Had borne the business ! '
SICINIUS : Besides , if things go well , Opinion that so sticks on Marcius shall Of his demerits rob Cominius .
BRUTUS : Come : Half all Cominius ' honours are to Marcius . Though Marcius earned them not , and all his faults To Marcius shall be honours , though indeed In aught he merit not .
SICINIUS : Let 's hence , and hear How the dispatch is made , and in what fashion , More than his singularity , he goes Upon this present action .
BRUTUS : Lets along . Enter TULLUS AUFIDIUS and certain Senators
First Senator : So , your opinion is , Aufidius , That they of Rome are entered in our counsels And know how we proceed .
AUFIDIUS : Is it not yours ? What ever have been thought on in this state , That could be brought to bodily act ere Rome Had circumvention ? ' Tis not four days gone Since I heard thence ; these are the words : I think I have the letter here ; yes , here it is . Reads ' They have press 'd a power , but it is not known Whether for east or west : the dearth is great ; The people mutinous ; and it is rumour 'd , Cominius , Marcius your old enemy , Who is of Rome worse hated than of you , And Titus Lartius , a most valiant Roman , These three lead on this preparation Whither ' tis bent : most likely ' tis for you : Consider of it . ' 
First Senator : Our army 's in the field We never yet made doubt but Rome was ready To answer us .
AUFIDIUS : Nor did you think it folly To keep your great pretences veil 'd till when They needs must show themselves ; which in the hatching , It seem 'd , appear 'd to Rome . By the discovery . We shall be shorten 'd in our aim , which was To take in many towns ere almost Rome Should know we were afoot .
