BRUTUS : Sir , I hope My words disbench 'd you not .
CORIOLANUS : No , sir : yet oft , When blows have made me stay , I fled from words . You soothed not , therefore hurt not : but your people , I love them as they weigh .
MENENIUS : Pray now , sit down .
CORIOLANUS : I had rather have one scratch my head i ' the sun When the alarum were struck than idly sit To hear my nothings monster 'd . Exit
MENENIUS : Masters of the people , Your multiplying spawn how can he flatter-- That 's thousand to one good one--when you now see He had rather venture all his limbs for honour Than one on 's ears to hear it ? Proceed , Cominius .
COMINIUS : I shall lack voice : the deeds of Coriolanus Should not be utter 'd feebly . It is held That valour is the chiefest virtue , and Most dignifies the haver : if it be , The man I speak of cannot in the world Be singly counterpoised . At sixteen years , When Tarquin made a head for Rome , he fought Beyond the mark of others : our then dictator , Whom with all praise I point at , saw him fight , When with his Amazonian chin he drove The bristled lips before him : be bestrid An o 'er-press 'd Roman and i ' the consul 's view Slew three opposers : Tarquin 's self he met , And struck him on his knee : in that day 's feats , When he might act the woman in the scene , He proved best man i ' the field , and for his meed Was brow-bound with the oak . His pupil age Man-enter 'd thus , he waxed like a sea , And in the brunt of seventeen battles since He lurch 'd all swords of the garland . For this last , Before and in Corioli , let me say , I cannot speak him home : he stopp 'd the fliers ; And by his rare example made the coward Turn terror into sport : as weeds before A vessel under sail , so men obey 'd And fell below his stem : his sword , death 's stamp , Where it did mark , it took ; from face to foot He was a thing of blood , whose every motion Was timed with dying cries : alone he enter 'd The mortal gate of the city , which he painted With shunless destiny ; aidless came off , And with a sudden reinforcement struck Corioli like a planet : now all 's his : When , by and by , the din of war gan pierce His ready sense ; then straight his doubled spirit Re-quicken 'd what in flesh was fatigate , And to the battle came he ; where he did Run reeking o 'er the lives of men , as if ' Twere a perpetual spoil : and till we call 'd Both field and city ours , he never stood To ease his breast with panting .
MENENIUS : Worthy man !
First Senator : He cannot but with measure fit the honours Which we devise him .
COMINIUS : Our spoils he kick 'd at , And look 'd upon things precious as they were The common muck of the world : he covets less Than misery itself would give ; rewards His deeds with doing them , and is content To spend the time to end it .
MENENIUS : He 's right noble : Let him be call 'd for .
First Senator : Call Coriolanus .
Officer : He doth appear . Re-enter CORIOLANUS
MENENIUS : The senate , Coriolanus , are well pleased To make thee consul .
CORIOLANUS : I do owe them still My life and services .
MENENIUS : It then remains That you do speak to the people .
CORIOLANUS : I do beseech you , Let me o 'erleap that custom , for I cannot Put on the gown , stand naked and entreat them , For my wounds ' sake , to give their suffrage : please you That I may pass this doing .
SICINIUS : Sir , the people Must have their voices ; neither will they bate One jot of ceremony .
