SICINIUS : It is a mind That shall remain a poison where it is , Not poison any further .
CORIOLANUS : Shall remain ! Hear you this Triton of the minnows ? mark you His absolute ' shall ' ?
COMINIUS : ' Twas from the canon .
CORIOLANUS : ' Shall ' ! O good but most unwise patricians ! why , You grave but reckless senators , have you thus Given Hydra here to choose an officer , That with his peremptory ' shall , ' being but The horn and noise o ' the monster 's , wants not spirit To say he 'll turn your current in a ditch , And make your channel his ? If he have power Then vail your ignorance ; if none , awake Your dangerous lenity . If you are learn 'd , Be not as common fools ; if you are not , Let them have cushions by you . You are plebeians , If they be senators : and they are no less , When , both your voices blended , the great 'st taste Most palates theirs . They choose their magistrate , And such a one as he , who puts his ' shall , ' His popular ' shall ' against a graver bench Than ever frown in Greece . By Jove himself ! It makes the consuls base : and my soul aches To know , when two authorities are up , Neither supreme , how soon confusion May enter ' twixt the gap of both and take The one by the other .
COMINIUS : Well , on to the market-place .
CORIOLANUS : Whoever gave that counsel , to give forth The corn o ' the storehouse gratis , as ' twas used Sometime in Greece , --
MENENIUS : Well , well , no more of that .
CORIOLANUS : Though there the people had more absolute power , I say , they nourish 'd disobedience , fed The ruin of the state .
BRUTUS : Why , shall the people give One that speaks thus their voice ?
CORIOLANUS : I 'll give my reasons , More worthier than their voices . They know the corn Was not our recompense , resting well assured That ne 'er did service for 't : being press 'd to the war , Even when the navel of the state was touch 'd , They would not thread the gates . This kind of service Did not deserve corn gratis . Being i ' the war Their mutinies and revolts , wherein they show 'd Most valour , spoke not for them : the accusation Which they have often made against the senate , All cause unborn , could never be the motive Of our so frank donation . Well , what then ? How shall this bisson multitude digest The senate 's courtesy ? Let deeds express What 's like to be their words : ' we did request it ; We are the greater poll , and in true fear They gave us our demands . ' Thus we debase The nature of our seats and make the rabble Call our cares fears ; which will in time Break ope the locks o ' the senate and bring in The crows to peck the eagles .
MENENIUS : Come , enough .
BRUTUS : Enough , with over-measure .
