MENENIUS : ' Tis true : If he were putting to my house the brand That should consume it , I have not the face To say ' Beseech you , cease . ' You have made fair hands , You and your crafts ! you have crafted fair !
COMINIUS : You have brought A trembling upon Rome , such as was never So incapable of help .
Both Tribunes : Say not we brought it .
MENENIUS : How ! Was it we ? we loved him but , like beasts And cowardly nobles , gave way unto your clusters , Who did hoot him out o ' the city .
COMINIUS : But I fear They 'll roar him in again . Tullus Aufidius , The second name of men , obeys his points As if he were his officer : desperation Is all the policy , strength and defence , That Rome can make against them . Enter a troop of Citizens
MENENIUS : Here come the clusters . And is Aufidius with him ? You are they That made the air unwholesome , when you cast Your stinking greasy caps in hooting at Coriolanus ' exile . Now he 's coming ; And not a hair upon a soldier 's head Which will not prove a whip : as many coxcombs As you threw caps up will he tumble down , And pay you for your voices . ' Tis no matter ; if he could burn us all into one coal , We have deserved it .
Citizens : Faith , we hear fearful news .
First Citizen : For mine own part , When I said , banish him , I said ' twas pity .
Second Citizen : And so did I.
Third Citizen : And so did I ; and , to say the truth , so did very many of us : that we did , we did for the best ; and though we willingly consented to his banishment , yet it was against our will .
COMINIUS : Ye re goodly things , you voices !
MENENIUS : You have made Good work , you and your cry ! Shall 's to the Capitol ?
COMINIUS : O , ay , what else ?
SICINIUS : Go , masters , get you home ; be not dismay 'd : These are a side that would be glad to have This true which they so seem to fear . Go home , And show no sign of fear .
First Citizen : The gods be good to us ! Come , masters , let 's home . I ever said we were i ' the wrong when we banished him .
Second Citizen : So did we all . But , come , let 's home .
BRUTUS : I do not like this news .
SICINIUS : Nor I.
BRUTUS : Let 's to the Capitol . Would half my wealth Would buy this for a lie !
SICINIUS : Pray , let us go . Enter AUFIDIUS and his Lieutenant
AUFIDIUS : Do they still fly to the Roman ?
Lieutenant : I do not know what witchcraft 's in him , but Your soldiers use him as the grace ' fore meat , Their talk at table , and their thanks at end ; And you are darken 'd in this action , sir , Even by your own .
AUFIDIUS : I cannot help it now , Unless , by using means , I lame the foot Of our design . He bears himself more proudlier , Even to my person , than I thought he would When first I did embrace him : yet his nature In that 's no changeling ; and I must excuse What cannot be amended .
Lieutenant : Yet I wish , sir , -- I mean for your particular , --you had not Join 'd in commission with him ; but either Had borne the action of yourself , or else To him had left it solely .
