SICINIUS : Friend , Art thou certain this is true ? is it most certain ?
Second Messenger : As certain as I know the sun is fire : Where have you lurk 'd , that you make doubt of it ? Ne 'er through an arch so hurried the blown tide , As the recomforted through the gates . Why , hark you ! Trumpets ; hautboys ; drums beat ; all together The trumpets , sackbuts , psalteries and fifes , Tabours and cymbals and the shouting Romans , Make the sun dance . Hark you ! A shout within
MENENIUS : This is good news : I will go meet the ladies . This Volumnia Is worth of consuls , senators , patricians , A city full ; of tribunes , such as you , A sea and land full . You have pray 'd well to-day : This morning for ten thousand of your throats I 'd not have given a doit . Hark , how they joy ! Music still , with shouts
SICINIUS : First , the gods bless you for your tidings ; next , Accept my thankfulness .
Second Messenger : Sir , we have all Great cause to give great thanks .
SICINIUS : They are near the city ?
Second Messenger : Almost at point to enter .
SICINIUS : We will meet them , And help the joy . Enter two Senators with VOLUMNIA , VIRGILIA , VALERIA , & c. passing over the stage , followed by Patricians and others
First Senator : Behold our patroness , the life of Rome ! Call all your tribes together , praise the gods , And make triumphant fires ; strew flowers before them : Unshout the noise that banish 'd Marcius , Repeal him with the welcome of his mother ; Cry ' Welcome , ladies , welcome ! '
All : Welcome , ladies , Welcome ! Enter TULLUS AUFIDIUS , with Attendants
AUFIDIUS : Go tell the lords o ' the city I am here : Deliver them this paper : having read it , Bid them repair to the market place ; where I , Even in theirs and in the commons ' ears , Will vouch the truth of it . Him I accuse The city ports by this hath enter 'd and Intends to appear before the people , hoping To purge herself with words : dispatch . Enter three or four Conspirators of AUFIDIUS ' faction Most welcome !
First Conspirator : How is it with our general ?
AUFIDIUS : Even so As with a man by his own alms empoison 'd , And with his charity slain .
Second Conspirator : Most noble sir , If you do hold the same intent wherein You wish 'd us parties , we 'll deliver you Of your great danger .
AUFIDIUS : Sir , I cannot tell : We must proceed as we do find the people .
Third Conspirator : The people will remain uncertain whilst ' Twixt you there 's difference ; but the fall of either Makes the survivor heir of all .
AUFIDIUS : I know it ; And my pretext to strike at him admits A good construction . I raised him , and I pawn 'd Mine honour for his truth : who being so heighten 'd , He water 'd his new plants with dews of flattery , Seducing so my friends ; and , to this end , He bow 'd his nature , never known before But to be rough , unswayable and free .
Third Conspirator : Sir , his stoutness When he did stand for consul , which he lost By lack of stooping , --
AUFIDIUS : That I would have spoke of : Being banish 'd for 't , he came unto my hearth ; Presented to my knife his throat : I took him ; Made him joint-servant with me ; gave him way In all his own desires ; nay , let him choose Out of my files , his projects to accomplish , My best and freshest men ; served his designments In mine own person ; holp to reap the fame Which he did end all his ; and took some pride To do myself this wrong : till , at the last , I seem 'd his follower , not partner , and He waged me with his countenance , as if I had been mercenary .
