CORIOLANUS : Must I go show them my unbarbed sconce ? Must I with base tongue give my noble heart A lie that it must bear ? Well , I will do 't : Yet , were there but this single plot to lose , This mould of Marcius , they to dust should grind it And throw 't against the wind . To the market-place ! You have put me now to such a part which never I shall discharge to the life .
COMINIUS : Come , come , we 'll prompt you .
VOLUMNIA : I prithee now , sweet son , as thou hast said My praises made thee first a soldier , so , To have my praise for this , perform a part Thou hast not done before .
CORIOLANUS : Well , I must do 't : Away , my disposition , and possess me Some harlot 's spirit ! my throat of war be turn 'd , Which quired with my drum , into a pipe Small as an eunuch , or the virgin voice That babies lulls asleep ! the smiles of knaves Tent in my cheeks , and schoolboys ' tears take up The glasses of my sight ! a beggar 's tongue Make motion through my lips , and my arm 'd knees , Who bow 'd but in my stirrup , bend like his That hath received an alms ! I will not do 't , Lest I surcease to honour mine own truth And by my body 's action teach my mind A most inherent baseness .
VOLUMNIA : At thy choice , then : To beg of thee , it is my more dishonour Than thou of them . Come all to ruin ; let Thy mother rather feel thy pride than fear Thy dangerous stoutness , for I mock at death With as big heart as thou . Do as thou list Thy valiantness was mine , thou suck 'dst it from me , But owe thy pride thyself .
CORIOLANUS : Pray , be content : Mother , I am going to the market-place ; Chide me no more . I 'll mountebank their loves , Cog their hearts from them , and come home beloved Of all the trades in Rome . Look , I am going : Commend me to my wife . I 'll return consul ; Or never trust to what my tongue can do I ' the way of flattery further .
VOLUMNIA : Do your will . Exit
COMINIUS : Away ! the tribunes do attend you : arm yourself To answer mildly ; for they are prepared With accusations , as I hear , more strong Than are upon you yet .
CORIOLANUS : The word is ' mildly . ' Pray you , let us go : Let them accuse me by invention , I Will answer in mine honour .
MENENIUS : Ay , but mildly .
CORIOLANUS : Well , mildly be it then . Mildly ! Enter SICINIUS and BRUTUS
BRUTUS : In this point charge him home , that he affects Tyrannical power : if he evade us there , Enforce him with his envy to the people , And that the spoil got on the Antiates Was ne 'er distributed . Enter an AEdile What , will he come ?
AEdile : He 's coming .
BRUTUS : How accompanied ?
AEdile : With old Menenius , and those senators That always favour 'd him .
SICINIUS : Have you a catalogue Of all the voices that we have procured Set down by the poll ?
AEdile : I have ; ' tis ready .
SICINIUS : Have you collected them by tribes ?
AEdile : I have .
SICINIUS : Assemble presently the people hither ; And when they bear me say ' It shall be so I ' the right and strength o ' the commons , ' be it either For death , for fine , or banishment , then let them If I say fine , cry ' Fine ; ' if death , cry ' Death . ' Insisting on the old prerogative And power i ' the truth o ' the cause .
AEdile : I shall inform them .
BRUTUS : And when such time they have begun to cry , Let them not cease , but with a din confused Enforce the present execution Of what we chance to sentence .
AEdile : Very well .
