MENENIUS : Well , and say that Marcius Return me , as Cominius is return 'd , Unheard ; what then ? But as a discontented friend , grief-shot With his unkindness ? say 't be so ?
SICINIUS : Yet your good will must have that thanks from Rome , after the measure As you intended well .
MENENIUS : I 'll undertake ' t : I think he 'll hear me . Yet , to bite his lip And hum at good Cominius , much unhearts me . He was not taken well ; he had not dined : The veins unfill 'd , our blood is cold , and then We pout upon the morning , are unapt To give or to forgive ; but when we have stuff 'd These and these conveyances of our blood With wine and feeding , we have suppler souls Than in our priest-like fasts : therefore I 'll watch him Till he be dieted to my request , And then I 'll set upon him .
BRUTUS : You know the very road into his kindness , And cannot lose your way .
MENENIUS : Good faith , I 'll prove him , Speed how it will . I shall ere long have knowledge Of my success . Exit
COMINIUS : He 'll never hear him .
SICINIUS : Not ?
COMINIUS : I tell you , he does sit in gold , his eye Red as ' twould burn Rome ; and his injury The gaoler to his pity . I kneel 'd before him ; ' Twas very faintly he said ' Rise ; ' dismiss 'd me Thus , with his speechless hand : what he would do , He sent in writing after me ; what he would not , Bound with an oath to yield to his conditions : So that all hope is vain . Unless his noble mother , and his wife ; Who , as I hear , mean to solicit him For mercy to his country . Therefore , let 's hence , And with our fair entreaties haste them on . Two Sentinels on guard . Enter to them , MENENIUS
First Senator : Stay : whence are you ?
Second Senator : Stand , and go back .
MENENIUS : You guard like men ; ' tis well : but , by your leave , I am an officer of state , and come To speak with Coriolanus .
First Senator : From whence ?
MENENIUS : From Rome .
First Senator : You may not pass , you must return : our general Will no more hear from thence .
Second Senator : You 'll see your Rome embraced with fire before You 'll speak with Coriolanus .
MENENIUS : Good my friends , If you have heard your general talk of Rome , And of his friends there , it is lots to blanks , My name hath touch 'd your ears it is Menenius .
First Senator : Be it so ; go back : the virtue of your name Is not here passable .
MENENIUS : I tell thee , fellow , The general is my lover : I have been The book of his good acts , whence men have read His name unparallel 'd , haply amplified ; For I have ever verified my friends , Of whom he 's chief , with all the size that verity Would without lapsing suffer : nay , sometimes , Like to a bowl upon a subtle ground , I have tumbled past the throw ; and in his praise Have almost stamp 'd the leasing : therefore , fellow , I must have leave to pass .
First Senator : Faith , sir , if you had told as many lies in his behalf as you have uttered words in your own , you should not pass here ; no , though it were as virtuous to lie as to live chastely . Therefore , go back .
MENENIUS : Prithee , fellow , remember my name is Menenius , always factionary on the party of your general .
Second Senator : Howsoever you have been his liar , as you say you have , I am one that , telling true under him , must say , you cannot pass . Therefore , go back .
MENENIUS : Has he dined , canst thou tell ? for I would not speak with him till after dinner .
