Citizens : It shall be so , it shall be so ; let him away : He 's banish 'd , and it shall be so .
COMINIUS : Hear me , my masters , and my common friends , --
SICINIUS : He 's sentenced ; no more hearing .
COMINIUS : Let me speak : I have been consul , and can show for Rome Her enemies ' marks upon me . I do love My country 's good with a respect more tender , More holy and profound , than mine own life , My dear wife 's estimate , her womb 's increase , And treasure of my loins ; then if I would Speak that , --
SICINIUS : We know your drift : speak what ?
BRUTUS : There 's no more to be said , but he is banish 'd , As enemy to the people and his country : It shall be so .
Citizens : It shall be so , it shall be so .
CORIOLANUS : You common cry of curs ! whose breath I hate As reek o ' the rotten fens , whose loves I prize As the dead carcasses of unburied men That do corrupt my air , I banish you ; And here remain with your uncertainty ! Let every feeble rumour shake your hearts ! Your enemies , with nodding of their plumes , Fan you into despair ! Have the power still To banish your defenders ; till at length Your ignorance , which finds not till it feels , Making not reservation of yourselves , Still your own foes , deliver you as most Abated captives to some nation That won you without blows ! Despising , For you , the city , thus I turn my back : There is a world elsewhere .
AEdile : The people 's enemy is gone , is gone !
Citizens : Our enemy is banish 'd ! he is gone ! Hoo ! hoo ! Shouting , and throwing up their caps
SICINIUS : Go , see him out at gates , and follow him , As he hath followed you , with all despite ; Give him deserved vexation . Let a guard Attend us through the city .
Citizens : Come , come ; let 's see him out at gates ; come . The gods preserve our noble tribunes ! Come . Enter CORIOLANUS , VOLUMNIA , VIRGILIA , MENENIUS , COMINIUS , with the young Nobility of Rome
CORIOLANUS : Come , leave your tears : a brief farewell : the beast With many heads butts me away . Nay , mother , Where is your ancient courage ? you were used To say extremity was the trier of spirits ; That common chances common men could bear ; That when the sea was calm all boats alike Show 'd mastership in floating ; fortune 's blows , When most struck home , being gentle wounded , craves A noble cunning : you were used to load me With precepts that would make invincible The heart that conn 'd them .
VIRGILIA : O heavens ! O heavens !
CORIOLANUS : Nay ! prithee , woman , --
VOLUMNIA : Now the red pestilence strike all trades in Rome , And occupations perish !
CORIOLANUS : What , what , what ! I shall be loved when I am lack 'd . Nay , mother . Resume that spirit , when you were wont to say , If you had been the wife of Hercules , Six of his labours you 'ld have done , and saved Your husband so much sweat . Cominius , Droop not ; adieu . Farewell , my wife , my mother : I 'll do well yet . Thou old and true Menenius , Thy tears are salter than a younger man 's , And venomous to thine eyes . My sometime general , I have seen thee stem , and thou hast oft beheld Heart-hardening spectacles ; tell these sad women ' Tis fond to wail inevitable strokes , As ' tis to laugh at ' em . My mother , you wot well My hazards still have been your solace : and Believe 't not lightly--though I go alone , Like to a lonely dragon , that his fen Makes fear 'd and talk 'd of more than seen--your son Will or exceed the common or be caught With cautelous baits and practise .
