COMINIUS : Though I could wish You were conducted to a gentle bath And balms applied to , you , yet dare I never Deny your asking : take your choice of those That best can aid your action .
MARCIUS : Those are they That most are willing . If any such be here-- As it were sin to doubt--that love this painting Wherein you see me smear 'd ; if any fear Lesser his person than an ill report ; If any think brave death outweighs bad life And that his country 's dearer than himself ; Let him alone , or so many so minded , Wave thus , to express his disposition , And follow Marcius . They all shout and wave their swords , take him up in their arms , and cast up their caps O , me alone ! make you a sword of me ? If these shows be not outward , which of you But is four Volsces ? none of you but is Able to bear against the great Aufidius A shield as hard as his . A certain number , Though thanks to all , must I select from all : the rest Shall bear the business in some other fight , As cause will be obey 'd . Please you to march ; And four shall quickly draw out my command , Which men are best inclined .
COMINIUS : March on , my fellows : Make good this ostentation , and you shall Divide in all with us . TITUS LARTIUS , having set a guard upon Corioli , going with drum and trumpet toward COMINIUS and CAIUS MARCIUS , enters with Lieutenant , other Soldiers , and a Scout
LARTIUS : So , let the ports be guarded : keep your duties , As I have set them down . If I do send , dispatch Those centuries to our aid : the rest will serve For a short holding : if we lose the field , We cannot keep the town .
Lieutenant : Fear not our care , sir .
LARTIUS : Hence , and shut your gates upon 's . Our guider , come ; to the Roman camp conduct us . Alarum as in battle . Enter , from opposite sides , MARCIUS and AUFIDIUS
MARCIUS : I 'll fight with none but thee ; for I do hate thee Worse than a promise-breaker .
AUFIDIUS : We hate alike : Not Afric owns a serpent I abhor More than thy fame and envy . Fix thy foot .
MARCIUS : Let the first budger die the other 's slave , And the gods doom him after !
AUFIDIUS : If I fly , Marcius , Holloa me like a hare .
MARCIUS : Within these three hours , Tullus , Alone I fought in your Corioli walls , And made what work I pleased : ' tis not my blood Wherein thou seest me mask 'd ; for thy revenge Wrench up thy power to the highest .
AUFIDIUS : Wert thou the Hector That was the whip of your bragg 'd progeny , Thou shouldst not scape me here . They fight , and certain Volsces come to the aid of AUFIDIUS . MARCIUS fights till they be driven in breathless Officious , and not valiant , you have shamed me In your condemned seconds . Flourish . Alarum . A retreat is sounded . Flourish . Enter , from one side , COMINIUS with the Romans ; from the other side , MARCIUS , with his arm in a scarf
COMINIUS : If I should tell thee o 'er this thy day 's work , Thou 'ldst not believe thy deeds : but I 'll report it Where senators shall mingle tears with smiles , Where great patricians shall attend and shrug , I ' the end admire , where ladies shall be frighted , And , gladly quaked , hear more ; where the dull tribunes , That , with the fusty plebeians , hate thine honours , Shall say against their hearts ' We thank the gods Our Rome hath such a soldier . ' Yet camest thou to a morsel of this feast , Having fully dined before . Enter TITUS LARTIUS , with his power , from the pursuit
LARTIUS : O general , Here is the steed , we the caparison : Hadst thou beheld--
