CORIOLANUS : O mother , mother ! What have you done ? Behold , the heavens do ope , The gods look down , and this unnatural scene They laugh at . O my mother , mother ! O ! You have won a happy victory to Rome ; But , for your son , --believe it , O , believe it , Most dangerously you have with him prevail 'd , If not most mortal to him . But , let it come . Aufidius , though I cannot make true wars , I 'll frame convenient peace . Now , good Aufidius , Were you in my stead , would you have heard A mother less ? or granted less , Aufidius ?
AUFIDIUS : I was moved withal .
CORIOLANUS : I dare be sworn you were : And , sir , it is no little thing to make Mine eyes to sweat compassion . But , good sir , What peace you 'll make , advise me : for my part , I 'll not to Rome , I 'll back with you ; and pray you , Stand to me in this cause . O mother ! wife !
AUFIDIUS : I am glad thou hast set thy mercy and thy honour At difference in thee : out of that I 'll work Myself a former fortune . The Ladies make signs to CORIOLANUS
CORIOLANUS : Ay , by and by ; To VOLUMNIA , VIRGILIA , & c But we will drink together ; and you shall bear A better witness back than words , which we , On like conditions , will have counter-seal 'd . Come , enter with us . Ladies , you deserve To have a temple built you : all the swords In Italy , and her confederate arms , Could not have made this peace . Enter MENENIUS and SICINIUS
MENENIUS : See you yond coign o ' the Capitol , yond corner-stone ?
SICINIUS : Why , what of that ?
MENENIUS : If it be possible for you to displace it with your little finger , there is some hope the ladies of Rome , especially his mother , may prevail with him . But I say there is no hope in 't : our throats are sentenced and stay upon execution .
SICINIUS : Is 't possible that so short a time can alter the condition of a man !
MENENIUS : There is differency between a grub and a butterfly ; yet your butterfly was a grub . This Marcius is grown from man to dragon : he has wings ; he 's more than a creeping thing .
SICINIUS : He loved his mother dearly .
MENENIUS : So did he me : and he no more remembers his mother now than an eight-year-old horse . The tartness of his face sours ripe grapes : when he walks , he moves like an engine , and the ground shrinks before his treading : he is able to pierce a corslet with his eye ; talks like a knell , and his hum is a battery . He sits in his state , as a thing made for Alexander . What he bids be done is finished with his bidding . He wants nothing of a god but eternity and a heaven to throne in .
SICINIUS : Yes , mercy , if you report him truly .
MENENIUS : I paint him in the character . Mark what mercy his mother shall bring from him : there is no more mercy in him than there is milk in a male tiger ; that shall our poor city find : and all this is long of you .
SICINIUS : The gods be good unto us !
MENENIUS : No , in such a case the gods will not be good unto us . When we banished him , we respected not them ; and , he returning to break our necks , they respect not us . Enter a Messenger
Messenger : Sir , if you 'ld save your life , fly to your house : The plebeians have got your fellow-tribune And hale him up and down , all swearing , if The Roman ladies bring not comfort home , They 'll give him death by inches . Enter a second Messenger
SICINIUS : What 's the news ?
