MENENIUS : O , he 's a limb that has but a disease ; Mortal , to cut it off ; to cure it , easy . What has he done to Rome that 's worthy death ? Killing our enemies , the blood he hath lost-- Which , I dare vouch , is more than that he hath , By many an ounce--he dropp 'd it for his country ; And what is left , to lose it by his country , Were to us all , that do 't and suffer it , A brand to the end o ' the world .
SICINIUS : This is clean kam .
BRUTUS : Merely awry : when he did love his country , It honour 'd him .
MENENIUS : The service of the foot Being once gangrened , is not then respected For what before it was .
BRUTUS : We 'll hear no more . Pursue him to his house , and pluck him thence : Lest his infection , being of catching nature , Spread further .
MENENIUS : One word more , one word . This tiger-footed rage , when it shall find The harm of unscann 'd swiftness , will too late Tie leaden pounds to 's heels . Proceed by process ; Lest parties , as he is beloved , break out , And sack great Rome with Romans .
BRUTUS : If it were so , --
SICINIUS : What do ye talk ? Have we not had a taste of his obedience ? Our aediles smote ? ourselves resisted ? Come .
MENENIUS : Consider this : he has been bred i ' the wars Since he could draw a sword , and is ill school 'd In bolted language ; meal and bran together He throws without distinction . Give me leave , I 'll go to him , and undertake to bring him Where he shall answer , by a lawful form , In peace , to his utmost peril .
First Senator : Noble tribunes , It is the humane way : the other course Will prove too bloody , and the end of it Unknown to the beginning .
SICINIUS : Noble Menenius , Be you then as the people 's officer . Masters , lay down your weapons .
BRUTUS : Go not home .
SICINIUS : Meet on the market-place . We 'll attend you there : Where , if you bring not Marcius , we 'll proceed In our first way .
MENENIUS : I 'll bring him to you . To the Senators Let me desire your company : he must come , Or what is worst will follow .
First Senator : Pray you , let 's to him . Enter CORIOLANUS with Patricians
CORIOLANUS : Let them puff all about mine ears , present me Death on the wheel or at wild horses ' heels , Or pile ten hills on the Tarpeian rock , That the precipitation might down stretch Below the beam of sight , yet will I still Be thus to them .
A Patrician : You do the nobler .
CORIOLANUS : I muse my mother Does not approve me further , who was wont To call them woollen vassals , things created To buy and sell with groats , to show bare heads In congregations , to yawn , be still and wonder , When one but of my ordinance stood up To speak of peace or war . Enter VOLUMNIA I talk of you : Why did you wish me milder ? would you have me False to my nature ? Rather say I play The man I am .
VOLUMNIA : O , sir , sir , sir , I would have had you put your power well on , Before you had worn it out .
CORIOLANUS : Let go .
VOLUMNIA : You might have been enough the man you are , With striving less to be so ; lesser had been The thwartings of your dispositions , if You had not show 'd them how ye were disposed Ere they lack 'd power to cross you .
CORIOLANUS : Let them hang .
A Patrician : Ay , and burn too . Enter MENENIUS and Senators
MENENIUS : Come , come , you have been too rough , something too rough ; You must return and mend it .
