VOLUMNIA : Your knee , sirrah .
CORIOLANUS : That 's my brave boy !
VOLUMNIA : Even he , your wife , this lady , and myself , Are suitors to you .
CORIOLANUS : I beseech you , peace : Or , if you 'ld ask , remember this before : The thing I have forsworn to grant may never Be held by you denials . Do not bid me Dismiss my soldiers , or capitulate Again with Rome 's mechanics : tell me not Wherein I seem unnatural : desire not To ally my rages and revenges with Your colder reasons .
VOLUMNIA : O , no more , no more ! You have said you will not grant us any thing ; For we have nothing else to ask , but that Which you deny already : yet we will ask ; That , if you fail in our request , the blame May hang upon your hardness : therefore hear us .
CORIOLANUS : Aufidius , and you Volsces , mark ; for we 'll Hear nought from Rome in private . Your request ?
VOLUMNIA : Should we be silent and not speak , our raiment And state of bodies would bewray what life We have led since thy exile . Think with thyself How more unfortunate than all living women Are we come hither : since that thy sight , which should Make our eyes flow with joy , hearts dance with comforts , Constrains them weep and shake with fear and sorrow ; Making the mother , wife and child to see The son , the husband and the father tearing His country 's bowels out . And to poor we Thine enmity 's most capital : thou barr 'st us Our prayers to the gods , which is a comfort That all but we enjoy ; for how can we , Alas , how can we for our country pray . Whereto we are bound , together with thy victory , Whereto we are bound ? alack , or we must lose The country , our dear nurse , or else thy person , Our comfort in the country . We must find An evident calamity , though we had Our wish , which side should win : for either thou Must , as a foreign recreant , be led With manacles thorough our streets , or else triumphantly tread on thy country 's ruin , And bear the palm for having bravely shed Thy wife and children 's blood . For myself , son , I purpose not to wait on fortune till These wars determine : if I cannot persuade thee Rather to show a noble grace to both parts Than seek the end of one , thou shalt no sooner March to assault thy country than to tread-- Trust to 't , thou shalt not--on thy mother 's womb , That brought thee to this world .
VIRGILIA : Ay , and mine , That brought you forth this boy , to keep your name Living to time .
Young MARCIUS : A ' shall not tread on me ; I 'll run away till I am bigger , but then I 'll fight .
CORIOLANUS : Not of a woman 's tenderness to be , Requires nor child nor woman 's face to see . I have sat too long . Rising
