COMINIUS : Help Marcius , help , You that be noble ; help him , young and old !
Citizens : Down with him , down with him ! In this mutiny , the Tribunes , the AEdiles , and the People , are beat in
MENENIUS : Go , get you to your house ; be gone , away ! All will be naught else .
Second Senator : Get you gone .
COMINIUS : Stand fast ; We have as many friends as enemies .
MENENIUS : Sham it be put to that ?
First Senator : The gods forbid ! I prithee , noble friend , home to thy house ; Leave us to cure this cause .
MENENIUS : For ' tis a sore upon us , You cannot tent yourself : be gone , beseech you .
COMINIUS : Come , sir , along with us .
CORIOLANUS : I would they were barbarians--as they are , Though in Rome litter 'd--not Romans--as they are not , Though calved i ' the porch o ' the Capitol--
MENENIUS : Be gone ; Put not your worthy rage into your tongue ; One time will owe another .
CORIOLANUS : On fair ground I could beat forty of them .
COMINIUS : I could myself Take up a brace o ' the best of them ; yea , the two tribunes : But now ' tis odds beyond arithmetic ; And manhood is call 'd foolery , when it stands Against a falling fabric . Will you hence , Before the tag return ? whose rage doth rend Like interrupted waters and o 'erbear What they are used to bear .
MENENIUS : Pray you , be gone : I 'll try whether my old wit be in request With those that have but little : this must be patch 'd With cloth of any colour .
COMINIUS : Nay , come away .
A Patrician : This man has marr 'd his fortune .
MENENIUS : His nature is too noble for the world : He would not flatter Neptune for his trident , Or Jove for 's power to thunder . His heart 's his mouth : What his breast forges , that his tongue must vent ; And , being angry , does forget that ever He heard the name of death . A noise within Here 's goodly work !
Second Patrician : I would they were abed !
MENENIUS : I would they were in Tiber ! What the vengeance ! Could he not speak ' em fair ? Re-enter BRUTUS and SICINIUS , with the rabble
SICINIUS : Where is this viper That would depopulate the city and Be every man himself ?
MENENIUS : You worthy tribunes , --
SICINIUS : He shall be thrown down the Tarpeian rock With rigorous hands : he hath resisted law , And therefore law shall scorn him further trial Than the severity of the public power Which he so sets at nought .
First Citizen : He shall well know The noble tribunes are the people 's mouths , And we their hands .
Citizens : He shall , sure on 't .
MENENIUS : Sir , sir , --
SICINIUS : Peace !
MENENIUS : Do not cry havoc , where you should but hunt With modest warrant .
SICINIUS : Sir , how comes 't that you Have holp to make this rescue ?
MENENIUS : Hear me speak : As I do know the consul 's worthiness , So can I name his faults , --
SICINIUS : Consul ! what consul ?
MENENIUS : The consul Coriolanus .
BRUTUS : He consul !
Citizens : No , no , no , no , no .
MENENIUS : If , by the tribunes ' leave , and yours , good people , I may be heard , I would crave a word or two ; The which shall turn you to no further harm Than so much loss of time .
SICINIUS : Speak briefly then ; For we are peremptory to dispatch This viperous traitor : to eject him hence Were but one danger , and to keep him here Our certain death : therefore it is decreed He dies to-night .
MENENIUS : Now the good gods forbid That our renowned Rome , whose gratitude Towards her deserved children is enroll 'd In Jove 's own book , like an unnatural dam Should now eat up her own !
