CORIOLANUS : Which is his house , beseech you ?
Citizen : This , here before you .
CORIOLANUS : Thank you , sir : farewell . Exit Citizen O world , thy slippery turns ! Friends now fast sworn , Whose double bosoms seem to wear one heart , Whose house , whose bed , whose meal , and exercise , Are still together , who twin , as ' twere , in love Unseparable , shall within this hour , On a dissension of a doit , break out To bitterest enmity : so , fellest foes , Whose passions and whose plots have broke their sleep , To take the one the other , by some chance , Some trick not worth an egg , shall grow dear friends And interjoin their issues . So with me : My birth-place hate I , and my love 's upon This enemy town . I 'll enter : if he slay me , He does fair justice ; if he give me way , I 'll do his country service . Exit Music within . Enter a Servingman
First Servingman : Wine , wine , wine ! What service is here ! I think our fellows are asleep . Exit Enter a second Servingman
Second Servingman : Where 's Cotus ? my master calls for him . Cotus ! Exit Enter CORIOLANUS
CORIOLANUS : A goodly house : the feast smells well ; but I Appear not like a guest . Re-enter the first Servingman
First Servingman : What would you have , friend ? whence are you ? Here 's no place for you : pray , go to the door . Exit
CORIOLANUS : I have deserved no better entertainment , In being Coriolanus . Re-enter second Servingman
Second Servingman : Whence are you , sir ? Has the porter his eyes in his head ; that he gives entrance to such companions ? Pray , get you out .
CORIOLANUS : Away !
Second Servingman : Away ! get you away .
CORIOLANUS : Now thou 'rt troublesome .
Second Servingman : Are you so brave ? I 'll have you talked with anon . Enter a third Servingman . The first meets him
Third Servingman : What fellow 's this ?
First Servingman : A strange one as ever I looked on : I cannot get him out of the house : prithee , call my master to him . Retires
Third Servingman : What have you to do here , fellow ? Pray you , avoid the house .
CORIOLANUS : Let me but stand ; I will not hurt your hearth .
Third Servingman : What are you ?
CORIOLANUS : A gentleman .
Third Servingman : A marvellous poor one .
CORIOLANUS : True , so I am .
Third Servingman : Pray you , poor gentleman , take up some other station ; here 's no place for you ; pray you , avoid : come .
CORIOLANUS : Follow your function , go , and batten on cold bits . Pushes him away
Third Servingman : What , you will not ? Prithee , tell my master what a strange guest he has here .
Second Servingman : And I shall . Exit
Third Servingman : Where dwellest thou ?
CORIOLANUS : Under the canopy .
Third Servingman : Under the canopy !
CORIOLANUS : Ay .
Third Servingman : Where 's that ?
CORIOLANUS : I ' the city of kites and crows .
Third Servingman : I ' the city of kites and crows ! What an ass it is ! Then thou dwellest with daws too ?
CORIOLANUS : No , I serve not thy master .
Third Servingman : How , sir ! do you meddle with my master ?
CORIOLANUS : Ay ; ' tis an honester service than to meddle with thy mistress . Thou pratest , and pratest ; serve with thy trencher , hence ! Beats him away . Exit third Servingman Enter AUFIDIUS with the second Servingman
AUFIDIUS : Where is this fellow ?
Second Servingman : Here , sir : I 'ld have beaten him like a dog , but for disturbing the lords within . Retires
AUFIDIUS : Whence comest thou ? what wouldst thou ? thy name ? Why speak 'st not ? speak , man : what 's thy name ?
