CORIOLANUS : You bless me , gods !
AUFIDIUS : Therefore , most absolute sir , if thou wilt have The leading of thine own revenges , take The one half of my commission ; and set down-- As best thou art experienced , since thou know 'st Thy country 's strength and weakness , --thine own ways ; Whether to knock against the gates of Rome , Or rudely visit them in parts remote , To fright them , ere destroy . But come in : Let me commend thee first to those that shall Say yea to thy desires . A thousand welcomes ! And more a friend than e 'er an enemy ; Yet , Marcius , that was much . Your hand : most welcome !
First Servingman : Here 's a strange alteration !
Second Servingman : By my hand , I had thought to have strucken him with a cudgel ; and yet my mind gave me his clothes made a false report of him .
First Servingman : What an arm he has ! he turned me about with his finger and his thumb , as one would set up a top .
Second Servingman : Nay , I knew by his face that there was something in him : he had , sir , a kind of face , methought , --I cannot tell how to term it .
First Servingman : He had so ; looking as it were--would I were hanged , but I thought there was more in him than I could think .
Second Servingman : So did I , I 'll be sworn : he is simply the rarest man i ' the world .
First Servingman : I think he is : but a greater soldier than he you wot on .
Second Servingman : Who , my master ?
First Servingman : Nay , it 's no matter for that .
Second Servingman : Worth six on him .
First Servingman : Nay , not so neither : but I take him to be the greater soldier .
Second Servingman : Faith , look you , one cannot tell how to say that : for the defence of a town , our general is excellent .
First Servingman : Ay , and for an assault too . Re-enter third Servingman
Third Servingman : O slaves , I can tell you news , -- news , you rascals !
First Servingman Second Servingman : What , what , what ? let 's partake .
Third Servingman : I would not be a Roman , of all nations ; I had as lieve be a condemned man .
First Servingman Second Servingman : Wherefore ? wherefore ?
Third Servingman : Why , here 's he that was wont to thwack our general , Caius Marcius .
First Servingman : Why do you say ' thwack our general ' ?
Third Servingman : I do not say ' thwack our general ; ' but he was always good enough for him .
Second Servingman : Come , we are fellows and friends : he was ever too hard for him ; I have heard him say so himself .
First Servingman : He was too hard for him directly , to say the troth on 't : before Corioli he scotched him and notched him like a carbon ado .
Second Servingman : An he had been cannibally given , he might have broiled and eaten him too .
First Servingman : But , more of thy news ?
Third Servingman : Why , he is so made on here within , as if he were son and heir to Mars ; set at upper end o ' the table ; no question asked him by any of the senators , but they stand bald before him : our general himself makes a mistress of him : sanctifies himself with 's hand and turns up the white o ' the eye to his discourse . But the bottom of the news is that our general is cut i ' the middle and but one half of what he was yesterday ; for the other has half , by the entreaty and grant of the whole table . He 'll go , he says , and sowl the porter of Rome gates by the ears : he will mow all down before him , and leave his passage polled .
