BRUTUS : What then , sir ?
MENENIUS : Why , then you should discover a brace of unmeriting , proud , violent , testy magistrates , alias fools , as any in Rome .
SICINIUS : Menenius , you are known well enough too .
MENENIUS : I am known to be a humorous patrician , and one that loves a cup of hot wine with not a drop of allaying Tiber in 't ; said to be something imperfect in favouring the first complaint ; hasty and tinder-like upon too trivial motion ; one that converses more with the buttock of the night than with the forehead of the morning : what I think I utter , and spend my malice in my breath . Meeting two such wealsmen as you are--I cannot call you Lycurguses--if the drink you give me touch my palate adversely , I make a crooked face at it . I can 't say your worships have delivered the matter well , when I find the ass in compound with the major part of your syllables : and though I must be content to bear with those that say you are reverend grave men , yet they lie deadly that tell you you have good faces . If you see this in the map of my microcosm , follows it that I am known well enough too ? what barm can your bisson conspectuities glean out of this character , if I be known well enough too ?
BRUTUS : Come , sir , come , we know you well enough .
MENENIUS : You know neither me , yourselves nor any thing . You are ambitious for poor knaves ' caps and legs : you wear out a good wholesome forenoon in hearing a cause between an orange wife and a fosset-seller ; and then rejourn the controversy of three pence to a second day of audience . When you are hearing a matter between party and party , if you chance to be pinched with the colic , you make faces like mummers ; set up the bloody flag against all patience ; and , in roaring for a chamber-pot , dismiss the controversy bleeding the more entangled by your hearing : all the peace you make in their cause is , calling both the parties knaves . You are a pair of strange ones .
BRUTUS : Come , come , you are well understood to be a perfecter giber for the table than a necessary bencher in the Capitol .
MENENIUS : Our very priests must become mockers , if they shall encounter such ridiculous subjects as you are . When you speak best unto the purpose , it is not worth the wagging of your beards ; and your beards deserve not so honourable a grave as to stuff a botcher 's cushion , or to be entombed in an ass 's pack- saddle . Yet you must be saying , Marcius is proud ; who in a cheap estimation , is worth predecessors since Deucalion , though peradventure some of the best of ' em were hereditary hangmen . God-den to your worships : more of your conversation would infect my brain , being the herdsmen of the beastly plebeians : I will be bold to take my leave of you . BRUTUS and SICINIUS go aside Enter VOLUMNIA , VIRGILIA , and VALERIA How now , my as fair as noble ladies , --and the moon , were she earthly , no nobler , --whither do you follow your eyes so fast ?
VOLUMNIA : Honourable Menenius , my boy Marcius approaches ; for the love of Juno , let 's go .
MENENIUS : Ha ! Marcius coming home !
VOLUMNIA : Ay , worthy Menenius ; and with most prosperous approbation .
MENENIUS : Take my cap , Jupiter , and I thank thee . Hoo ! Marcius coming home !
VOLUMNIA VIRGILIA : Nay , ' tis true .
VOLUMNIA : Look , here 's a letter from him : the state hath another , his wife another ; and , I think , there 's one at home for you .
MENENIUS : I will make my very house reel tonight : a letter for me !
VIRGILIA : Yes , certain , there 's a letter for you ; I saw 't .
