AUFIDIUS : There was it : For which my sinews shall be stretch 'd upon him . At a few drops of women 's rheum , which are As cheap as lies , he sold the blood and labour Of our great action : therefore shall he die , And I 'll renew me in his fall . But , hark ! Drums and trumpets sound , with great shouts of the People
First Conspirator : Your native town you enter 'd like a post , And had no welcomes home : but he returns , Splitting the air with noise .
Second Conspirator : And patient fools , Whose children he hath slain , their base throats tear With giving him glory .
Third Conspirator : Therefore , at your vantage , Ere he express himself , or move the people With what he would say , let him feel your sword , Which we will second . When he lies along , After your way his tale pronounced shall bury His reasons with his body .
AUFIDIUS : Say no more : Here come the lords . Enter the Lords of the city
All The Lords : You are most welcome home .
AUFIDIUS : I have not deserved it . But , worthy lords , have you with heed perused What I have written to you ?
Lords : We have .
First Lord : And grieve to hear 't . What faults he made before the last , I think Might have found easy fines : but there to end Where he was to begin and give away The benefit of our levies , answering us With our own charge , making a treaty where There was a yielding , --this admits no excuse .
AUFIDIUS : He approaches : you shall hear him . Enter CORIOLANUS , marching with drum and colours ; commoners being with him
CORIOLANUS : Hail , lords ! I am return 'd your soldier , No more infected with my country 's love Than when I parted hence , but still subsisting Under your great command . You are to know That prosperously I have attempted and With bloody passage led your wars even to The gates of Rome . Our spoils we have brought home Do more than counterpoise a full third part The charges of the action . We have made peace With no less honour to the Antiates Than shame to the Romans : and we here deliver , Subscribed by the consuls and patricians , Together with the seal o ' the senate , what We have compounded on .
AUFIDIUS : Read it not , noble lords ; But tell the traitor , in the high 'st degree He hath abused your powers .
CORIOLANUS : Traitor ! how now !
AUFIDIUS : Ay , traitor , Marcius !
CORIOLANUS : Marcius !
AUFIDIUS : Ay , Marcius , Caius Marcius : dost thou think I 'll grace thee with that robbery , thy stol 'n name Coriolanus in Corioli ? You lords and heads o ' the state , perfidiously He has betray 'd your business , and given up , For certain drops of salt , your city Rome , I say ' your city , ' to his wife and mother ; Breaking his oath and resolution like A twist of rotten silk , never admitting Counsel o ' the war , but at his nurse 's tears He whined and roar 'd away your victory , That pages blush 'd at him and men of heart Look 'd wondering each at other .
CORIOLANUS : Hear 'st thou , Mars ?
AUFIDIUS : Name not the god , thou boy of tears !
CORIOLANUS : Ha !
AUFIDIUS : No more .
CORIOLANUS : Measureless liar , thou hast made my heart Too great for what contains it . Boy ! O slave ! Pardon me , lords , ' tis the first time that ever I was forced to scold . Your judgments , my grave lords , Must give this cur the lie : and his own notion-- Who wears my stripes impress 'd upon him ; that Must bear my beating to his grave--shall join To thrust the lie unto him .
First Lord : Peace , both , and hear me speak .
