AUFIDIUS : What is thy name ?
CORIOLANUS : A name unmusical to the Volscians ' ears , And harsh in sound to thine .
AUFIDIUS : Say , what 's thy name ? Thou hast a grim appearance , and thy face Bears a command in 't ; though thy tackle 's torn . Thou show 'st a noble vessel : what 's thy name ?
CORIOLANUS : Prepare thy brow to frown : know 'st thou me yet ?
AUFIDIUS : I know thee not : thy name ?
CORIOLANUS : My name is Caius Marcius , who hath done To thee particularly and to all the Volsces Great hurt and mischief ; thereto witness may My surname , Coriolanus : the painful service , The extreme dangers and the drops of blood Shed for my thankless country are requited But with that surname ; a good memory , And witness of the malice and displeasure Which thou shouldst bear me : only that name remains ; The cruelty and envy of the people , Permitted by our dastard nobles , who Have all forsook me , hath devour 'd the rest ; And suffer 'd me by the voice of slaves to be Whoop 'd out of Rome . Now this extremity Hath brought me to thy hearth ; not out of hope-- Mistake me not--to save my life , for if I had fear 'd death , of all the men i ' the world I would have ' voided thee , but in mere spite , To be full quit of those my banishers , Stand I before thee here . Then if thou hast A heart of wreak in thee , that wilt revenge Thine own particular wrongs and stop those maims Of shame seen through thy country , speed thee straight , And make my misery serve thy turn : so use it That my revengeful services may prove As benefits to thee , for I will fight Against my canker 'd country with the spleen Of all the under fiends . But if so be Thou darest not this and that to prove more fortunes Thou 'rt tired , then , in a word , I also am Longer to live most weary , and present My throat to thee and to thy ancient malice ; Which not to cut would show thee but a fool , Since I have ever follow 'd thee with hate , Drawn tuns of blood out of thy country 's breast , And cannot live but to thy shame , unless It be to do thee service .
