COMINIUS : Ever right .
CORIOLANUS : Menenius ever , ever .
Herald : Give way there , and go on !
CORIOLANUS : Your hand , and yours : Ere in our own house I do shade my head , The good patricians must be visited ; From whom I have received not only greetings , But with them change of honours .
VOLUMNIA : I have lived To see inherited my very wishes And the buildings of my fancy : only There 's one thing wanting , which I doubt not but Our Rome will cast upon thee .
CORIOLANUS : Know , good mother , I had rather be their servant in my way , Than sway with them in theirs .
COMINIUS : On , to the Capitol ! come forward
BRUTUS : All tongues speak of him , and the bleared sights Are spectacled to see him : your prattling nurse Into a rapture lets her baby cry While she chats him : the kitchen malkin pins Her richest lockram ' bout her reechy neck , Clambering the walls to eye him : stalls , bulks , windows , Are smother 'd up , leads fill 'd , and ridges horsed With variable complexions , all agreeing In earnestness to see him : seld-shown flamens Do press among the popular throngs and puff To win a vulgar station : or veil 'd dames Commit the war of white and damask in Their nicely-gawded cheeks to the wanton spoil Of Phoebus ' burning kisses : such a pother As if that whatsoever god who leads him Were slily crept into his human powers And gave him graceful posture .
SICINIUS : On the sudden , I warrant him consul .
BRUTUS : Then our office may , During his power , go sleep .
SICINIUS : He cannot temperately transport his honours From where he should begin and end , but will Lose those he hath won .
BRUTUS : In that there 's comfort .
SICINIUS : Doubt not The commoners , for whom we stand , but they Upon their ancient malice will forget With the least cause these his new honours , which That he will give them make I as little question As he is proud to do 't .
BRUTUS : I heard him swear , Were he to stand for consul , never would he Appear i ' the market-place nor on him put The napless vesture of humility ; Nor showing , as the manner is , his wounds To the people , beg their stinking breaths .
SICINIUS : ' Tis right .
BRUTUS : It was his word : O , he would miss it rather Than carry it but by the suit of the gentry to him , And the desire of the nobles .
SICINIUS : I wish no better Than have him hold that purpose and to put it In execution .
BRUTUS : ' Tis most like he will .
SICINIUS : It shall be to him then as our good wills , A sure destruction .
BRUTUS : So it must fall out To him or our authorities . For an end , We must suggest the people in what hatred He still hath held them ; that to 's power he would Have made them mules , silenced their pleaders and Dispropertied their freedoms , holding them , In human action and capacity , Of no more soul nor fitness for the world Than camels in the war , who have their provand Only for bearing burdens , and sore blows For sinking under them .
SICINIUS : This , as you say , suggested At some time when his soaring insolence Shall touch the people--which time shall not want , If he be put upon ' t ; and that 's as easy As to set dogs on sheep--will be his fire To kindle their dry stubble ; and their blaze Shall darken him for ever . Enter a Messenger
BRUTUS : What 's the matter ?
