SICINIUS : Have you Ere now denied the asker ? and now again Of him that did not ask , but mock , bestow Your sued-for tongues ?
Third Citizen : He 's not confirm 'd ; we may deny him yet .
Second Citizen : And will deny him : I 'll have five hundred voices of that sound .
First Citizen : I twice five hundred and their friends to piece ' em .
BRUTUS : Get you hence instantly , and tell those friends , They have chose a consul that will from them take Their liberties ; make them of no more voice Than dogs that are as often beat for barking As therefore kept to do so .
SICINIUS : Let them assemble , And on a safer judgment all revoke Your ignorant election ; enforce his pride , And his old hate unto you ; besides , forget not With what contempt he wore the humble weed , How in his suit he scorn 'd you ; but your loves , Thinking upon his services , took from you The apprehension of his present portance , Which most gibingly , ungravely , he did fashion After the inveterate hate he bears you .
BRUTUS : Lay A fault on us , your tribunes ; that we laboured , No impediment between , but that you must Cast your election on him .
SICINIUS : Say , you chose him More after our commandment than as guided By your own true affections , and that your minds , Preoccupied with what you rather must do Than what you should , made you against the grain To voice him consul : lay the fault on us .
BRUTUS : Ay , spare us not . Say we read lectures to you . How youngly he began to serve his country , How long continued , and what stock he springs of , The noble house o ' the Marcians , from whence came That Ancus Marcius , Numa 's daughter 's son , Who , after great Hostilius , here was king ; Of the same house Publius and Quintus were , That our beat water brought by conduits hither ; And nobly named so , Twice being censor , Was his great ancestor .
SICINIUS : One thus descended , That hath beside well in his person wrought To be set high in place , we did commend To your remembrances : but you have found , Scaling his present bearing with his past , That he 's your fixed enemy , and revoke Your sudden approbation .
BRUTUS : Say , you ne 'er had done 't-- Harp on that still--but by our putting on ; And presently , when you have drawn your number , Repair to the Capitol .
All : We will so : almost all Repent in their election .
BRUTUS : Let them go on ; This mutiny were better put in hazard , Than stay , past doubt , for greater : If , as his nature is , he fall in rage With their refusal , both observe and answer The vantage of his anger .
SICINIUS : To the Capitol , come : We will be there before the stream o ' the people ; And this shall seem , as partly ' tis , their own , Which we have goaded onward . Cornets . Enter CORIOLANUS , MENENIUS , all the Gentry , COMINIUS , TITUS LARTIUS , and other Senators
CORIOLANUS : Tullus Aufidius then had made new head ?
LARTIUS : He had , my lord ; and that it was which caused Our swifter composition .
CORIOLANUS : So then the Volsces stand but as at first , Ready , when time shall prompt them , to make road . Upon 's again .
COMINIUS : They are worn , lord consul , so , That we shall hardly in our ages see Their banners wave again .
CORIOLANUS : Saw you Aufidius ?
LARTIUS : On safe-guard he came to me ; and did curse Against the Volsces , for they had so vilely Yielded the town : he is retired to Antium .
CORIOLANUS : Spoke he of me ?
LARTIUS : He did , my lord .
CORIOLANUS : How ? what ?
