BRUTUS : Let 's to the Capitol ; And carry with us ears and eyes for the time , But hearts for the event .
SICINIUS : Have with you . Enter two Officers , to lay cushions
First Officer : Come , come , they are almost here . How many stand for consulships ?
Second Officer : Three , they say : but ' tis thought of every one Coriolanus will carry it .
First Officer : That 's a brave fellow ; but he 's vengeance proud , and loves not the common people .
Second Officer : Faith , there had been many great men that have flattered the people , who ne 'er loved them ; and there be many that they have loved , they know not wherefore : so that , if they love they know not why , they hate upon no better a ground : therefore , for Coriolanus neither to care whether they love or hate him manifests the true knowledge he has in their disposition ; and out of his noble carelessness lets them plainly see 't .
First Officer : If he did not care whether he had their love or no , he waved indifferently ' twixt doing them neither good nor harm : but he seeks their hate with greater devotion than can render it him ; and leaves nothing undone that may fully discover him their opposite . Now , to seem to affect the malice and displeasure of the people is as bad as that which he dislikes , to flatter them for their love .
Second Officer : He hath deserved worthily of his country : and his ascent is not by such easy degrees as those who , having been supple and courteous to the people , bonneted , without any further deed to have them at an into their estimation and report : but he hath so planted his honours in their eyes , and his actions in their hearts , that for their tongues to be silent , and not confess so much , were a kind of ingrateful injury ; to report otherwise , were a malice , that , giving itself the lie , would pluck reproof and rebuke from every ear that heard it .
First Officer : No more of him ; he is a worthy man : make way , they are coming . A sennet . Enter , with actors before them , COMINIUS the consul , MENENIUS , CORIOLANUS , Senators , SICINIUS and BRUTUS . The Senators take their places ; the Tribunes take their Places by themselves . CORIOLANUS stands
MENENIUS : Having determined of the Volsces and To send for Titus Lartius , it remains , As the main point of this our after-meeting , To gratify his noble service that Hath thus stood for his country : therefore , please you , Most reverend and grave elders , to desire The present consul , and last general In our well-found successes , to report A little of that worthy work perform 'd By Caius Marcius Coriolanus , whom We met here both to thank and to remember With honours like himself .
First Senator : Speak , good Cominius : Leave nothing out for length , and make us think Rather our state 's defective for requital Than we to stretch it out . To the Tribunes Masters o ' the people , We do request your kindest ears , and after , Your loving motion toward the common body , To yield what passes here .
SICINIUS : We are convented Upon a pleasing treaty , and have hearts Inclinable to honour and advance The theme of our assembly .
BRUTUS : Which the rather We shall be blest to do , if he remember A kinder value of the people than He hath hereto prized them at .
MENENIUS : That 's off , that 's off ; I would you rather had been silent . Please you To hear Cominius speak ?
BRUTUS : Most willingly ; But yet my caution was more pertinent Than the rebuke you give it .
MENENIUS : He loves your people But tie him not to be their bedfellow . Worthy Cominius , speak . CORIOLANUS offers to go away Nay , keep your place .
First Senator : Sit , Coriolanus ; never shame to hear What you have nobly done .
