CORIOLANUS : We will before the walls of Rome tomorrow Set down our host . My partner in this action , You must report to the Volscian lords , how plainly I have borne this business .
AUFIDIUS : Only their ends You have respected ; stopp 'd your ears against The general suit of Rome ; never admitted A private whisper , no , not with such friends That thought them sure of you .
CORIOLANUS : This last old man , Whom with a crack 'd heart I have sent to Rome , Loved me above the measure of a father ; Nay , godded me , indeed . Their latest refuge Was to send him ; for whose old love I have , Though I show 'd sourly to him , once more offer 'd The first conditions , which they did refuse And cannot now accept ; to grace him only That thought he could do more , a very little I have yielded to : fresh embassies and suits , Nor from the state nor private friends , hereafter Will I lend ear to . Ha ! what shout is this ? Shout within Shall I be tempted to infringe my vow In the same time ' tis made ? I will not . Enter in mourning habits , VIRGILIA , VOLUMNIA , leading young MARCIUS , VALERIA , and Attendants My wife comes foremost ; then the honour 'd mould Wherein this trunk was framed , and in her hand The grandchild to her blood . But , out , affection ! All bond and privilege of nature , break ! Let it be virtuous to be obstinate . What is that curt 'sy worth ? or those doves ' eyes , Which can make gods forsworn ? I melt , and am not Of stronger earth than others . My mother bows ; As if Olympus to a molehill should In supplication nod : and my young boy Hath an aspect of intercession , which Great nature cries ' Deny not . ' let the Volsces Plough Rome and harrow Italy : I 'll never Be such a gosling to obey instinct , but stand , As if a man were author of himself And knew no other kin .
VIRGILIA : My lord and husband !
CORIOLANUS : These eyes are not the same I wore in Rome .
VIRGILIA : The sorrow that delivers us thus changed Makes you think so .
CORIOLANUS : Like a dull actor now , I have forgot my part , and I am out , Even to a full disgrace . Best of my flesh , Forgive my tyranny ; but do not say For that ' Forgive our Romans . ' O , a kiss Long as my exile , sweet as my revenge ! Now , by the jealous queen of heaven , that kiss I carried from thee , dear ; and my true lip Hath virgin 'd it e 'er since . You gods ! I prate , And the most noble mother of the world Leave unsaluted : sink , my knee , i ' the earth ; Kneels Of thy deep duty more impression show Than that of common sons .
VOLUMNIA : O , stand up blest ! Whilst , with no softer cushion than the flint , I kneel before thee ; and unproperly Show duty , as mistaken all this while Between the child and parent . Kneels
CORIOLANUS : What is this ? Your knees to me ? to your corrected son ? Then let the pebbles on the hungry beach Fillip the stars ; then let the mutinous winds Strike the proud cedars ' gainst the fiery sun ; Murdering impossibility , to make What cannot be , slight work .
VOLUMNIA : Thou art my warrior ; I holp to frame thee . Do you know this lady ?
CORIOLANUS : The noble sister of Publicola , The moon of Rome , chaste as the icicle That 's curdied by the frost from purest snow And hangs on Dian 's temple : dear Valeria !
VOLUMNIA : This is a poor epitome of yours , Which by the interpretation of full time May show like all yourself .
