Third Servingman : Do 't ! he will do 't ; for , look you , sir , he has as many friends as enemies ; which friends , sir , as it were , durst not , look you , sir , show themselves , as we term it , his friends whilst he 's in directitude .
First Servingman : Directitude ! what 's that ?
Third Servingman : But when they shall see , sir , his crest up again , and the man in blood , they will out of their burrows , like conies after rain , and revel all with him .
First Servingman : But when goes this forward ?
Third Servingman : To-morrow ; to-day ; presently ; you shall have the drum struck up this afternoon : ' tis , as it were , a parcel of their feast , and to be executed ere they wipe their lips .
Second Servingman : Why , then we shall have a stirring world again . This peace is nothing , but to rust iron , increase tailors , and breed ballad-makers .
First Servingman : Let me have war , say I ; it exceeds peace as far as day does night ; it 's spritely , waking , audible , and full of vent . Peace is a very apoplexy , lethargy ; mulled , deaf , sleepy , insensible ; a getter of more bastard children than war 's a destroyer of men .
Second Servingman : ' Tis so : and as war , in some sort , may be said to be a ravisher , so it cannot be denied but peace is a great maker of cuckolds .
First Servingman : Ay , and it makes men hate one another .
Third Servingman : Reason ; because they then less need one another . The wars for my money . I hope to see Romans as cheap as Volscians . They are rising , they are rising .
All : In , in , in , in ! Enter SICINIUS and BRUTUS
SICINIUS : We hear not of him , neither need we fear him ; His remedies are tame i ' the present peace And quietness of the people , which before Were in wild hurry . Here do we make his friends Blush that the world goes well , who rather had , Though they themselves did suffer by 't , behold Dissentious numbers pestering streets than see Our tradesmen with in their shops and going About their functions friendly .
BRUTUS : We stood to 't in good time . Enter MENENIUS Is this Menenius ?
SICINIUS : ' Tis he , ' tis he : O , he is grown most kind of late .
Both Tribunes : Hail sir !
MENENIUS : Hail to you both !
SICINIUS : Your Coriolanus Is not much miss 'd , but with his friends : The commonwealth doth stand , and so would do , Were he more angry at it .
MENENIUS : All 's well ; and might have been much better , if He could have temporized .
SICINIUS : Where is he , hear you ?
MENENIUS : Nay , I hear nothing : his mother and his wife Hear nothing from him . Enter three or four Citizens
Citizens : The gods preserve you both !
SICINIUS : God-den , our neighbours .
BRUTUS : God-den to you all , god-den to you all .
First Citizen : Ourselves , our wives , and children , on our knees , Are bound to pray for you both .
SICINIUS : Live , and thrive !
BRUTUS : Farewell , kind neighbours : we wish 'd Coriolanus Had loved you as we did .
Citizens : Now the gods keep you !
Both Tribunes : Farewell , farewell .
SICINIUS : This is a happier and more comely time Than when these fellows ran about the streets , Crying confusion .
BRUTUS : Caius Marcius was A worthy officer i ' the war ; but insolent , O 'ercome with pride , ambitious past all thinking , Self-loving , --
SICINIUS : And affecting one sole throne , Without assistance .
MENENIUS : I think not so .
SICINIUS : We should by this , to all our lamentation , If he had gone forth consul , found it so .
