MENENIUS : O me , the gods ! You must not speak of that : you must desire them To think upon you .
CORIOLANUS : Think upon me ! hang ' em ! I would they would forget me , like the virtues Which our divines lose by ' em .
MENENIUS : You 'll mar all : I 'll leave you : pray you , speak to ' em , I pray you , In wholesome manner . Exit
CORIOLANUS : Bid them wash their faces And keep their teeth clean . Re-enter two of the Citizens So , here comes a brace . Re-enter a third Citizen You know the cause , air , of my standing here .
Third Citizen : We do , sir ; tell us what hath brought you to 't .
CORIOLANUS : Mine own desert .
Second Citizen : Your own desert !
CORIOLANUS : Ay , but not mine own desire .
Third Citizen : How not your own desire ?
CORIOLANUS : No , sir , ' twas never my desire yet to trouble the poor with begging .
Third Citizen : You must think , if we give you any thing , we hope to gain by you .
CORIOLANUS : Well then , I pray , your price o ' the consulship ?
First Citizen : The price is to ask it kindly .
CORIOLANUS : Kindly ! Sir , I pray , let me ha 't : I have wounds to show you , which shall be yours in private . Your good voice , sir ; what say you ?
Second Citizen : You shall ha ' it , worthy sir .
CORIOLANUS : A match , sir . There 's in all two worthy voices begged . I have your alms : adieu .
Third Citizen : But this is something odd .
Second Citizen : An ' twere to give again , --but ' tis no matter . Re-enter two other Citizens
CORIOLANUS : Pray you now , if it may stand with the tune of your voices that I may be consul , I have here the customary gown .
Fourth Citizen : You have deserved nobly of your country , and you have not deserved nobly .
CORIOLANUS : Your enigma ?
Fourth Citizen : You have been a scourge to her enemies , you have been a rod to her friends ; you have not indeed loved the common people .
CORIOLANUS : You should account me the more virtuous that I have not been common in my love . I will , sir , flatter my sworn brother , the people , to earn a dearer estimation of them ; ' tis a condition they account gentle : and since the wisdom of their choice is rather to have my hat than my heart , I will practise the insinuating nod and be off to them most counterfeitly ; that is , sir , I will counterfeit the bewitchment of some popular man and give it bountiful to the desirers . Therefore , beseech you , I may be consul .
Fifth Citizen : We hope to find you our friend ; and therefore give you our voices heartily .
Fourth Citizen : You have received many wounds for your country .
CORIOLANUS : I will not seal your knowledge with showing them . I will make much of your voices , and so trouble you no further .
Both Citizens : The gods give you joy , sir , heartily !
