HOTSPUR : Methinks my moiety , north from Burton here , In quantity equals not one of yours : See how this river comes me cranking in , And cuts me from the best of all my land A huge half-moon , a monstrous cantle out . I 'll have the current in this place damm 'd up ; And here the smug and silver Trent shall run In a new channel , fair and evenly ; It shall not wind with such a deep indent , To rob me of so rich a bottom here .
GLENDOWER : Not wind ? it shall , it must ; you see it doth .
MORTIMER : Yea , but Mark how he bears his course , and runs me up With like advantage on the other side ; Gelding the opposed continent as much As on the other side it takes from you .
EARL OF WORCESTER : Yea , but a little charge will trench him here And on this north side win this cape of land ; And then he runs straight and even .
HOTSPUR : I 'll have it so : a little charge will do it .
GLENDOWER : I 'll not have it alter 'd .
HOTSPUR : Will not you ?
GLENDOWER : No , nor you shall not .
HOTSPUR : Who shall say me nay ?
GLENDOWER : Why , that will I.
HOTSPUR : Let me not understand you , then ; speak it in Welsh .
GLENDOWER : I can speak English , lord , as well as you ; For I was train 'd up in the English court ; Where , being but young , I framed to the harp Many an English ditty lovely well And gave the tongue a helpful ornament , A virtue that was never seen in you .
HOTSPUR : Marry , And I am glad of it with all my heart : I had rather be a kitten and cry mew Than one of these same metre ballad-mongers ; I had rather hear a brazen canstick turn 'd , Or a dry wheel grate on the axle-tree ; And that would set my teeth nothing on edge , Nothing so much as mincing poetry : ' Tis like the forced gait of a shuffling nag .
GLENDOWER : Come , you shall have Trent turn 'd .
HOTSPUR : I do not care : I 'll give thrice so much land To any well-deserving friend ; But in the way of bargain , mark ye me , I 'll cavil on the ninth part of a hair . Are the indentures drawn ? shall we be gone ?
GLENDOWER : The moon shines fair ; you may away by night : I 'll haste the writer and withal Break with your wives of your departure hence : I am afraid my daughter will run mad , So much she doteth on her Mortimer . Exit GLENDOWER
MORTIMER : Fie , cousin Percy ! how you cross my father !
HOTSPUR : I cannot choose : sometime he angers me With telling me of the mouldwarp and the ant , Of the dreamer Merlin and his prophecies , And of a dragon and a finless fish , A clip-wing 'd griffin and a moulten raven , A couching lion and a ramping cat , And such a deal of skimble-skamble stuff As puts me from my faith . I tell you what ; He held me last night at least nine hours In reckoning up the several devils ' names That were his lackeys : I cried ' hum , ' and ' well , go to , ' But mark 'd him not a word . O , he is as tedious As a tired horse , a railing wife ; Worse than a smoky house : I had rather live With cheese and garlic in a windmill , far , Than feed on cates and have him talk to me In any summer-house in Christendom .
