EARL OF WORCESTER : Peace , cousin , say no more : And now I will unclasp a secret book , And to your quick-conceiving discontents I 'll read you matter deep and dangerous , As full of peril and adventurous spirit As to o 'er-walk a current roaring loud On the unsteadfast footing of a spear .
HOTSPUR : If he fall in , good night ! or sink or swim : Send danger from the east unto the west , So honour cross it from the north to south , And let them grapple : O , the blood more stirs To rouse a lion than to start a hare !
NORTHUMBERLAND : Imagination of some great exploit Drives him beyond the bounds of patience .
HOTSPUR : By heaven , methinks it were an easy leap , To pluck bright honour from the pale-faced moon , Or dive into the bottom of the deep , Where fathom-line could never touch the ground , And pluck up drowned honour by the locks ; So he that doth redeem her thence might wear Without corrival , all her dignities : But out upon this half-faced fellowship !
EARL OF WORCESTER : He apprehends a world of figures here , But not the form of what he should attend . Good cousin , give me audience for a while .
HOTSPUR : I cry you mercy .
EARL OF WORCESTER : Those same noble Scots That are your prisoners , --
HOTSPUR : I 'll keep them all ; By God , he shall not have a Scot of them ; No , if a Scot would save his soul , he shall not : I 'll keep them , by this hand .
EARL OF WORCESTER : You start away And lend no ear unto my purposes . Those prisoners you shall keep .
HOTSPUR : Nay , I will ; that 's flat : He said he would not ransom Mortimer ; Forbad my tongue to speak of Mortimer ; But I will find him when he lies asleep , And in his ear I 'll holla ' Mortimer ! ' Nay , I 'll have a starling shall be taught to speak Nothing but ' Mortimer , ' and give it him To keep his anger still in motion .
EARL OF WORCESTER : Hear you , cousin ; a word .
HOTSPUR : All studies here I solemnly defy , Save how to gall and pinch this Bolingbroke : And that same sword-and-buckler Prince of Wales , But that I think his father loves him not And would be glad he met with some mischance , I would have him poison 'd with a pot of ale .
EARL OF WORCESTER : Farewell , kinsman : I 'll talk to you When you are better temper 'd to attend .
NORTHUMBERLAND : Why , what a wasp-stung and impatient fool Art thou to break into this woman 's mood , Tying thine ear to no tongue but thine own !
HOTSPUR : Why , look you , I am whipp 'd and scourged with rods , Nettled and stung with pismires , when I hear Of this vile politician , Bolingbroke . In Richard 's time , --what do you call the place ? -- A plague upon it , it is in Gloucestershire ; ' Twas where the madcap duke his uncle kept , His uncle York ; where I first bow 'd my knee Unto this king of smiles , this Bolingbroke , -- ' Sblood ! -- When you and he came back from Ravenspurgh .
NORTHUMBERLAND : At Berkley castle .
HOTSPUR : You say true : Why , what a candy deal of courtesy This fawning greyhound then did proffer me ! Look , ' when his infant fortune came to age , ' And ' gentle Harry Percy , ' and ' kind cousin ; ' O , the devil take such cozeners ! God forgive me ! Good uncle , tell your tale ; I have done .
EARL OF WORCESTER : Nay , if you have not , to it again ; We will stay your leisure .
HOTSPUR : I have done , i ' faith .
