KING HENRY IV : These things indeed you have articulate , Proclaim 'd at market-crosses , read in churches , To face the garment of rebellion With some fine colour that may please the eye Of fickle changelings and poor discontents , Which gape and rub the elbow at the news Of hurlyburly innovation : And never yet did insurrection want Such water-colours to impaint his cause ; Nor moody beggars , starving for a time Of pellmell havoc and confusion .
PRINCE HENRY : In both your armies there is many a soul Shall pay full dearly for this encounter , If once they join in trial . Tell your nephew , The Prince of Wales doth join with all the world In praise of Henry Percy : by my hopes , This present enterprise set off his head , I do not think a braver gentleman , More active-valiant or more valiant-young , More daring or more bold , is now alive To grace this latter age with noble deeds . For my part , I may speak it to my shame , I have a truant been to chivalry ; And so I hear he doth account me too ; Yet this before my father 's majesty-- I am content that he shall take the odds Of his great name and estimation , And will , to save the blood on either side , Try fortune with him in a single fight .
KING HENRY IV : And , Prince of Wales , so dare we venture thee , Albeit considerations infinite Do make against it . No , good Worcester , no , We love our people well ; even those we love That are misled upon your cousin 's part ; And , will they take the offer of our grace , Both he and they and you , every man Shall be my friend again and I 'll be his : So tell your cousin , and bring me word What he will do : but if he will not yield , Rebuke and dread correction wait on us And they shall do their office . So , be gone ; We will not now be troubled with reply : We offer fair ; take it advisedly .
PRINCE HENRY : It will not be accepted , on my life : The Douglas and the Hotspur both together Are confident against the world in arms .
KING HENRY IV : Hence , therefore , every leader to his charge ; For , on their answer , will we set on them : And God befriend us , as our cause is just !
FALSTAFF : Hal , if thou see me down in the battle and bestride me , so ; ' tis a point of friendship .
PRINCE HENRY : Nothing but a colossus can do thee that friendship . Say thy prayers , and farewell .
FALSTAFF : I would ' twere bed-time , Hal , and all well .
PRINCE HENRY : Why , thou owest God a death . Exit PRINCE HENRY
FALSTAFF : ' Tis not due yet ; I would be loath to pay him before his day . What need I be so forward with him that calls not on me ? Well , ' tis no matter ; honour pricks me on . Yea , but how if honour prick me off when I come on ? how then ? Can honour set to a leg ? no : or an arm ? no : or take away the grief of a wound ? no . Honour hath no skill in surgery , then ? no . What is honour ? a word . What is in that word honour ? what is that honour ? air . A trim reckoning ! Who hath it ? he that died o ' Wednesday . Doth he feel it ? no . Doth he hear it ? no . ' Tis insensible , then . Yea , to the dead . But will it not live with the living ? no . Why ? detraction will not suffer it . Therefore I 'll none of it . Honour is a mere scutcheon : and so ends my catechism . Exit Enter WORCESTER and VERNON
EARL OF WORCESTER : O , no , my nephew must not know , Sir Richard , The liberal and kind offer of the king .
VERNON : ' Twere best he did .
