KING HENRY IV : My blood hath been too cold and temperate , Unapt to stir at these indignities , And you have found me ; for accordingly You tread upon my patience : but be sure I will from henceforth rather be myself , Mighty and to be fear 'd , than my condition ; Which hath been smooth as oil , soft as young down , And therefore lost that title of respect Which the proud soul ne 'er pays but to the proud .
EARL OF WORCESTER : Our house , my sovereign liege , little deserves The scourge of greatness to be used on it ; And that same greatness too which our own hands Have holp to make so portly .
NORTHUMBERLAND : My lord.--
KING HENRY IV : Worcester , get thee gone ; for I do see Danger and disobedience in thine eye : O , sir , your presence is too bold and peremptory , And majesty might never yet endure The moody frontier of a servant brow . You have good leave to leave us : when we need Your use and counsel , we shall send for you . Exit Worcester You were about to speak . To North
NORTHUMBERLAND : Yea , my good lord . Those prisoners in your highness ' name demanded , Which Harry Percy here at Holmedon took , Were , as he says , not with such strength denied As is deliver 'd to your majesty : Either envy , therefore , or misprison Is guilty of this fault and not my son .
HOTSPUR : My liege , I did deny no prisoners . But I remember , when the fight was done , When I was dry with rage and extreme toil , Breathless and faint , leaning upon my sword , Came there a certain lord , neat , and trimly dress 'd , Fresh as a bridegroom ; and his chin new reap 'd Show 'd like a stubble-land at harvest-home ; He was perfumed like a milliner ; And ' twixt his finger and his thumb he held A pouncet-box , which ever and anon He gave his nose and took 't away again ; Who therewith angry , when it next came there , Took it in snuff ; and still he smiled and talk 'd , And as the soldiers bore dead bodies by , He call 'd them untaught knaves , unmannerly , To bring a slovenly unhandsome corse Betwixt the wind and his nobility . With many holiday and lady terms He question 'd me ; amongst the rest , demanded My prisoners in your majesty 's behalf . I then , all smarting with my wounds being cold , To be so pester 'd with a popinjay , Out of my grief and my impatience , Answer 'd neglectingly I know not what , He should or he should not ; for he made me mad To see him shine so brisk and smell so sweet And talk so like a waiting-gentlewoman Of guns and drums and wounds , --God save the mark ! -- And telling me the sovereign 'st thing on earth Was parmaceti for an inward bruise ; And that it was great pity , so it was , This villanous salt-petre should be digg 'd Out of the bowels of the harmless earth , Which many a good tall fellow had destroy 'd So cowardly ; and but for these vile guns , He would himself have been a soldier . This bald unjointed chat of his , my lord , I answer 'd indirectly , as I said ; And I beseech you , let not his report Come current for an accusation Betwixt my love and your high majesty .
SIR WALTER BLUNT : The circumstance consider 'd , good my lord , Whate 'er Lord Harry Percy then had said To such a person and in such a place , At such a time , with all the rest retold , May reasonably die and never rise To do him wrong or any way impeach What then he said , so he unsay it now .
