HOTSPUR : And you in hell , as oft as he hears Owen Glendower spoke of .
GLENDOWER : I cannot blame him : at my nativity The front of heaven was full of fiery shapes , Of burning cressets ; and at my birth The frame and huge foundation of the earth Shaked like a coward .
HOTSPUR : Why , so it would have done at the same season , if your mother 's cat had but kittened , though yourself had never been born .
GLENDOWER : I say the earth did shake when I was born .
HOTSPUR : And I say the earth was not of my mind , If you suppose as fearing you it shook .
GLENDOWER : The heavens were all on fire , the earth did tremble .
HOTSPUR : O , then the earth shook to see the heavens on fire , And not in fear of your nativity . Diseased nature oftentimes breaks forth In strange eruptions ; oft the teeming earth Is with a kind of colic pinch 'd and vex 'd By the imprisoning of unruly wind Within her womb ; which , for enlargement striving , Shakes the old beldam earth and topples down Steeples and moss-grown towers . At your birth Our grandam earth , having this distemperature , In passion shook .
GLENDOWER : Cousin , of many men I do not bear these crossings . Give me leave To tell you once again that at my birth The front of heaven was full of fiery shapes , The goats ran from the mountains , and the herds Were strangely clamorous to the frighted fields . These signs have mark 'd me extraordinary ; And all the courses of my life do show I am not in the roll of common men . Where is he living , clipp 'd in with the sea That chides the banks of England , Scotland , Wales , Which calls me pupil , or hath read to me ? And bring him out that is but woman 's son Can trace me in the tedious ways of art And hold me pace in deep experiments .
HOTSPUR : I think there 's no man speaks better Welsh . I 'll to dinner .
MORTIMER : Peace , cousin Percy ; you will make him mad .
GLENDOWER : I can call spirits from the vasty deep .
HOTSPUR : Why , so can I , or so can any man ; But will they come when you do call for them ?
GLENDOWER : Why , I can teach you , cousin , to command The devil .
HOTSPUR : And I can teach thee , coz , to shame the devil By telling truth : tell truth and shame the devil . If thou have power to raise him , bring him hither , And I 'll be sworn I have power to shame him hence . O , while you live , tell truth and shame the devil !
MORTIMER : Come , come , no more of this unprofitable chat .
GLENDOWER : Three times hath Henry Bolingbroke made head Against my power ; thrice from the banks of Wye And sandy-bottom 'd Severn have I sent him Bootless home and weather-beaten back .
HOTSPUR : Home without boots , and in foul weather too ! How ' scapes he agues , in the devil 's name ?
GLENDOWER : Come , here 's the map : shall we divide our right According to our threefold order ta 'en ?
MORTIMER : The archdeacon hath divided it Into three limits very equally : England , from Trent and Severn hitherto , By south and east is to my part assign 'd : All westward , Wales beyond the Severn shore , And all the fertile land within that bound , To Owen Glendower : and , dear coz , to you The remnant northward , lying off from Trent . And our indentures tripartite are drawn ; Which being sealed interchangeably , A business that this night may execute , To-morrow , cousin Percy , you and I And my good Lord of Worcester will set forth To meet your father and the Scottish power , As is appointed us , at Shrewsbury . My father Glendower is not ready yet , Not shall we need his help these fourteen days . Within that space you may have drawn together Your tenants , friends and neighbouring gentlemen .
