HOTSPUR : I can no longer brook thy vanities . They fight Enter FALSTAFF
FALSTAFF : Well said , Hal ! to it Hal ! Nay , you shall find no boy 's play here , I can tell you . Re-enter DOUGLAS ; he fights with FALSTAFF , who falls down as if he were dead , and exit DOUGLAS . HOTSPUR is wounded , and falls
HOTSPUR : O , Harry , thou hast robb 'd me of my youth ! I better brook the loss of brittle life Than those proud titles thou hast won of me ; They wound my thoughts worse than sword my flesh : But thought 's the slave of life , and life time 's fool ; And time , that takes survey of all the world , Must have a stop . O , I could prophesy , But that the earthy and cold hand of death Lies on my tongue : no , Percy , thou art dust And food for-- Dies
PRINCE HENRY : For worms , brave Percy : fare thee well , great heart ! Ill-weaved ambition , how much art thou shrunk ! When that this body did contain a spirit , A kingdom for it was too small a bound ; But now two paces of the vilest earth Is room enough : this earth that bears thee dead Bears not alive so stout a gentleman . If thou wert sensible of courtesy , I should not make so dear a show of zeal : But let my favours hide thy mangled face ; And , even in thy behalf , I 'll thank myself For doing these fair rites of tenderness . Adieu , and take thy praise with thee to heaven ! Thy ignominy sleep with thee in the grave , But not remember 'd in thy epitaph ! He spieth FALSTAFF on the ground What , old acquaintance ! could not all this flesh Keep in a little life ? Poor Jack , farewell ! I could have better spared a better man : O , I should have a heavy miss of thee , If I were much in love with vanity ! Death hath not struck so fat a deer to-day , Though many dearer , in this bloody fray . Embowell 'd will I see thee by and by : Till then in blood by noble Percy lie . Exit PRINCE HENRY
FALSTAFF : Embowelled ! if thou embowel me to-day , I 'll give you leave to powder me and eat me too to-morrow . ' Sblood , ' twas time to counterfeit , or that hot termagant Scot had paid me scot and lot too . Counterfeit ? I lie , I am no counterfeit : to die , is to be a counterfeit ; for he is but the counterfeit of a man who hath not the life of a man : but to counterfeit dying , when a man thereby liveth , is to be no counterfeit , but the true and perfect image of life indeed . The better part of valour is discretion ; in the which better part I have saved my life . ' Zounds , I am afraid of this gunpowder Percy , though he be dead : how , if he should counterfeit too and rise ? by my faith , I am afraid he would prove the better counterfeit . Therefore I 'll make him sure ; yea , and I 'll swear I killed him . Why may not he rise as well as I ? Nothing confutes me but eyes , and nobody sees me . Therefore , sirrah , Stabbing him with a new wound in your thigh , come you along with me . Takes up HOTSPUR on his back Re-enter PRINCE HENRY and LORD JOHN OF LANCASTER
PRINCE HENRY : Come , brother John ; full bravely hast thou flesh 'd Thy maiden sword .
LANCASTER : But , soft ! whom have we here ? Did you not tell me this fat man was dead ?
PRINCE HENRY : I did ; I saw him dead , Breathless and bleeding on the ground . Art thou alive ? Or is it fantasy that plays upon our eyesight ? I prithee , speak ; we will not trust our eyes Without our ears : thou art not what thou seem 'st .
