PRINCE HENRY : Why , Percy I killed myself and saw thee dead .
FALSTAFF : Didst thou ? Lord , Lord , how this world is given to lying ! I grant you I was down and out of breath ; and so was he : but we rose both at an instant and fought a long hour by Shrewsbury clock . If I may be believed , so ; if not , let them that should reward valour bear the sin upon their own heads . I 'll take it upon my death , I gave him this wound in the thigh : if the man were alive and would deny it , ' zounds , I would make him eat a piece of my sword .
LANCASTER : This is the strangest tale that ever I heard .
PRINCE HENRY : This is the strangest fellow , brother John . Come , bring your luggage nobly on your back : For my part , if a lie may do thee grace , I 'll gild it with the happiest terms I have . A retreat is sounded The trumpet sounds retreat ; the day is ours . Come , brother , let us to the highest of the field , To see what friends are living , who are dead .
FALSTAFF : I 'll follow , as they say , for reward . He that rewards me , God reward him ! If I do grow great , I 'll grow less ; for I 'll purge , and leave sack , and live cleanly as a nobleman should do . Exit The trumpets sound . Enter KING HENRY IV , PRINCE HENRY , LORD JOHN LANCASTER , EARL OF WESTMORELAND , with WORCESTER and VERNON prisoners
KING HENRY IV : Thus ever did rebellion find rebuke . Ill-spirited Worcester ! did not we send grace , Pardon and terms of love to all of you ? And wouldst thou turn our offers contrary ? Misuse the tenor of thy kinsman 's trust ? Three knights upon our party slain to-day , A noble earl and many a creature else Had been alive this hour , If like a Christian thou hadst truly borne Betwixt our armies true intelligence .
EARL OF WORCESTER : What I have done my safety urged me to ; And I embrace this fortune patiently , Since not to be avoided it falls on me .
KING HENRY IV : Bear Worcester to the death and Vernon too : Other offenders we will pause upon . How goes the field ?
PRINCE HENRY : The noble Scot , Lord Douglas , when he saw The fortune of the day quite turn 'd from him , The noble Percy slain , and all his men Upon the foot of fear , fled with the rest ; And falling from a hill , he was so bruised That the pursuers took him . At my tent The Douglas is ; and I beseech your grace I may dispose of him .
KING HENRY IV : With all my heart .
PRINCE HENRY : Then , brother John of Lancaster , to you This honourable bounty shall belong : Go to the Douglas , and deliver him Up to his pleasure , ransomless and free : His valour shown upon our crests to-day Hath taught us how to cherish such high deeds Even in the bosom of our adversaries .
LANCASTER : I thank your grace for this high courtesy , Which I shall give away immediately .
