HOTSPUR : Of York , is it not ?
EARL OF WORCESTER : True ; who bears hard His brother 's death at Bristol , the Lord Scroop . I speak not this in estimation , As what I think might be , but what I know Is ruminated , plotted and set down , And only stays but to behold the face Of that occasion that shall bring it on .
HOTSPUR : I smell it : upon my life , it will do well .
NORTHUMBERLAND : Before the game is afoot , thou still let 'st slip .
HOTSPUR : Why , it cannot choose but be a noble plot ; And then the power of Scotland and of York , To join with Mortimer , ha ?
EARL OF WORCESTER : And so they shall .
HOTSPUR : In faith , it is exceedingly well aim 'd .
EARL OF WORCESTER : And ' tis no little reason bids us speed , To save our heads by raising of a head ; For , bear ourselves as even as we can , The king will always think him in our debt , And think we think ourselves unsatisfied , Till he hath found a time to pay us home : And see already how he doth begin To make us strangers to his looks of love .
HOTSPUR : He does , he does : we 'll be revenged on him .
EARL OF WORCESTER : Cousin , farewell : no further go in this Than I by letters shall direct your course . When time is ripe , which will be suddenly , I 'll steal to Glendower and Lord Mortimer ; Where you and Douglas and our powers at once , As I will fashion it , shall happily meet , To bear our fortunes in our own strong arms , Which now we hold at much uncertainty .
NORTHUMBERLAND : Farewell , good brother : we shall thrive , I trust .
HOTSPUR : Uncle , Adieu : O , let the hours be short Till fields and blows and groans applaud our sport ! Enter a Carrier with a lantern in his hand
First Carrier : Heigh-ho ! an it be not four by the day , I 'll be hanged : Charles ' wain is over the new chimney , and yet our horse not packed . What , ostler !
Ostler : Anon , anon .
First Carrier : I prithee , Tom , beat Cut 's saddle , put a few flocks in the point ; poor jade , is wrung in the withers out of all cess . Enter another Carrier
Second Carrier : Peas and beans are as dank here as a dog , and that is the next way to give poor jades the bots : this house is turned upside down since Robin Ostler died .
First Carrier : Poor fellow , never joyed since the price of oats rose ; it was the death of him .
Second Carrier : I think this be the most villanous house in all London road for fleas : I am stung like a tench .
First Carrier : Like a tench ! by the mass , there is ne 'er a king christen could be better bit than I have been since the first cock .
Second Carrier : Why , they will allow us ne 'er a jordan , and then we leak in your chimney ; and your chamber-lie breeds fleas like a loach .
First Carrier : What , ostler ! come away and be hanged !
Second Carrier : I have a gammon of bacon and two razors of ginger , to be delivered as far as Charing-cross .
First Carrier : God 's body ! the turkeys in my pannier are quite starved . What , ostler ! A plague on thee ! hast thou never an eye in thy head ? canst not hear ? An ' twere not as good deed as drink , to break the pate on thee , I am a very villain . Come , and be hanged ! hast thou no faith in thee ? Enter GADSHILL
GADSHILL : Good morrow , carriers . What 's o 'clock ?
First Carrier : I think it be two o 'clock .
GADSHILL : I pray thee lend me thy lantern , to see my gelding in the stable .
