POINS : Welcome , Jack : where hast thou been ?
FALSTAFF : A plague of all cowards , I say , and a vengeance too ! marry , and amen ! Give me a cup of sack , boy . Ere I lead this life long , I 'll sew nether stocks and mend them and foot them too . A plague of all cowards ! Give me a cup of sack , rogue . Is there no virtue extant ? He drinks
PRINCE HENRY : Didst thou never see Titan kiss a dish of butter ? pitiful-hearted Titan , that melted at the sweet tale of the sun 's ! if thou didst , then behold that compound .
FALSTAFF : You rogue , here 's lime in this sack too : there is nothing but roguery to be found in villanous man : yet a coward is worse than a cup of sack with lime in it . A villanous coward ! Go thy ways , old Jack ; die when thou wilt , if manhood , good manhood , be not forgot upon the face of the earth , then am I a shotten herring . There live not three good men unhanged in England ; and one of them is fat and grows old : God help the while ! a bad world , I say . I would I were a weaver ; I could sing psalms or any thing . A plague of all cowards , I say still .
PRINCE HENRY : How now , wool-sack ! what mutter you ?
FALSTAFF : A king 's son ! If I do not beat thee out of thy kingdom with a dagger of lath , and drive all thy subjects afore thee like a flock of wild-geese , I 'll never wear hair on my face more . You Prince of Wales !
PRINCE HENRY : Why , you whoreson round man , what 's the matter ?
FALSTAFF : Are not you a coward ? answer me to that : and Poins there ?
POINS : ' Zounds , ye fat paunch , an ye call me coward , by the Lord , I 'll stab thee .
FALSTAFF : I call thee coward ! I 'll see thee damned ere I call thee coward : but I would give a thousand pound I could run as fast as thou canst . You are straight enough in the shoulders , you care not who sees your back : call you that backing of your friends ? A plague upon such backing ! give me them that will face me . Give me a cup of sack : I am a rogue , if I drunk to-day .
PRINCE HENRY : O villain ! thy lips are scarce wiped since thou drunkest last .
FALSTAFF : All 's one for that . He drinks A plague of all cowards , still say I.
PRINCE HENRY : What 's the matter ?
FALSTAFF : What 's the matter ! there be four of us here have ta 'en a thousand pound this day morning .
PRINCE HENRY : Where is it , Jack ? where is it ?
FALSTAFF : Where is it ! taken from us it is : a hundred upon poor four of us .
PRINCE HENRY : What , a hundred , man ?
FALSTAFF : I am a rogue , if I were not at half-sword with a dozen of them two hours together . I have ' scaped by miracle . I am eight times thrust through the doublet , four through the hose ; my buckler cut through and through ; my sword hacked like a hand-saw--ecce signum ! I never dealt better since I was a man : all would not do . A plague of all cowards ! Let them speak : if they speak more or less than truth , they are villains and the sons of darkness .
PRINCE HENRY : Speak , sirs ; how was it ?
GADSHILL : We four set upon some dozen--
FALSTAFF : Sixteen at least , my lord .
GADSHILL : And bound them .
PETO : No , no , they were not bound .
FALSTAFF : You rogue , they were bound , every man of them ; or I am a Jew else , an Ebrew Jew .
GADSHILL : As we were sharing , some six or seven fresh men set upon us--
