PRINCE HENRY : Got with much ease . Now merrily to horse : The thieves are all scatter 'd and possess 'd with fear So strongly that they dare not meet each other ; Each takes his fellow for an officer . Away , good Ned . Falstaff sweats to death , And lards the lean earth as he walks along : Were ' t not for laughing , I should pity him .
POINS : How the rogue roar 'd ! Enter HOTSPUR , solus , reading a letter
HOTSPUR : ' But for mine own part , my lord , I could be well contented to be there , in respect of the love I bear your house . ' He could be contented : why is he not , then ? In respect of the love he bears our house : he shows in this , he loves his own barn better than he loves our house . Let me see some more . ' The purpose you undertake is dangerous ; ' --why , that 's certain : ' tis dangerous to take a cold , to sleep , to drink ; but I tell you , my lord fool , out of this nettle , danger , we pluck this flower , safety . ' The purpose you undertake is dangerous ; the friends you have named uncertain ; the time itself unsorted ; and your whole plot too light for the counterpoise of so great an opposition . ' Say you so , say you so ? I say unto you again , you are a shallow cowardly hind , and you lie . What a lack-brain is this ! By the Lord , our plot is a good plot as ever was laid ; our friends true and constant : a good plot , good friends , and full of expectation ; an excellent plot , very good friends . What a frosty-spirited rogue is this ! Why , my lord of York commends the plot and the general course of action . ' Zounds , an I were now by this rascal , I could brain him with his lady 's fan . Is there not my father , my uncle and myself ? lord Edmund Mortimer , My lord of York and Owen Glendower ? is there not besides the Douglas ? have I not all their letters to meet me in arms by the ninth of the next month ? and are they not some of them set forward already ? What a pagan rascal is this ! an infidel ! Ha ! you shall see now in very sincerity of fear and cold heart , will he to the king and lay open all our proceedings . O , I could divide myself and go to buffets , for moving such a dish of skim milk with so honourable an action ! Hang him ! let him tell the king : we are prepared . I will set forward to-night . Enter LADY PERCY How now , Kate ! I must leave you within these two hours .
