HOTSPUR : What , ho ! Enter Servant Is Gilliams with the packet gone ?
Servant : He is , my lord , an hour ago .
HOTSPUR : Hath Butler brought those horses from the sheriff ?
Servant : One horse , my lord , he brought even now .
HOTSPUR : What horse ? a roan , a crop-ear , is it not ?
Servant : It is , my lord .
HOTSPUR : That roan shall by my throne . Well , I will back him straight : O esperance ! Bid Butler lead him forth into the park . Exit Servant
LADY PERCY : But hear you , my lord .
HOTSPUR : What say 'st thou , my lady ?
LADY PERCY : What is it carries you away ?
HOTSPUR : Why , my horse , my love , my horse .
LADY PERCY : Out , you mad-headed ape ! A weasel hath not such a deal of spleen As you are toss 'd with . In faith , I 'll know your business , Harry , that I will . I fear my brother Mortimer doth stir About his title , and hath sent for you To line his enterprise : but if you go , --
HOTSPUR : So far afoot , I shall be weary , love .
LADY PERCY : Come , come , you paraquito , answer me Directly unto this question that I ask : In faith , I 'll break thy little finger , Harry , An if thou wilt not tell me all things true .
HOTSPUR : Away , Away , you trifler ! Love ! I love thee not , I care not for thee , Kate : this is no world To play with mammets and to tilt with lips : We must have bloody noses and crack 'd crowns , And pass them current too . God 's me , my horse ! What say 'st thou , Kate ? what would 'st thou have with me ?
LADY PERCY : Do you not love me ? do you not , indeed ? Well , do not then ; for since you love me not , I will not love myself . Do you not love me ? Nay , tell me if you speak in jest or no .
HOTSPUR : Come , wilt thou see me ride ? And when I am on horseback , I will swear I love thee infinitely . But hark you , Kate ; I must not have you henceforth question me Whither I go , nor reason whereabout : Whither I must , I must ; and , to conclude , This evening must I leave you , gentle Kate . I know you wise , but yet no farther wise Than Harry Percy 's wife : constant you are , But yet a woman : and for secrecy , No lady closer ; for I well believe Thou wilt not utter what thou dost not know ; And so far will I trust thee , gentle Kate .
LADY PERCY : How ! so far ?
HOTSPUR : Not an inch further . But hark you , Kate : Whither I go , thither shall you go too ; To-day will I set forth , to-morrow you . Will this content you , Kate ?
LADY PERCY : It must of force . Enter PRINCE HENRY and POINS
PRINCE HENRY : Ned , prithee , come out of that fat room , and lend me thy hand to laugh a little .
POINS : Where hast been , Hal ?
