WESTMORELAND : This is his uncle 's teaching ; this is Worcester , Malevolent to you in all aspects ; Which makes him prune himself , and bristle up The crest of youth against your dignity .
KING HENRY IV : But I have sent for him to answer this ; And for this cause awhile we must neglect Our holy purpose to Jerusalem . Cousin , on Wednesday next our council we Will hold at Windsor ; so inform the lords : But come yourself with speed to us again ; For more is to be said and to be done Than out of anger can be uttered .
WESTMORELAND : I will , my liege . Enter the PRINCE OF WALES and FALSTAFF
FALSTAFF : Now , Hal , what time of day is it , lad ?
PRINCE HENRY : Thou art so fat-witted , with drinking of old sack and unbuttoning thee after supper and sleeping upon benches after noon , that thou hast forgotten to demand that truly which thou wouldst truly know . What a devil hast thou to do with the time of the day ? Unless hours were cups of sack and minutes capons and clocks the tongues of bawds and dials the signs of leaping-houses and the blessed sun himself a fair hot wench in flame-coloured taffeta , I see no reason why thou shouldst be so superfluous to demand the time of the day .
FALSTAFF : Indeed , you come near me now , Hal ; for we that take purses go by the moon and the seven stars , and not by Phoebus , he , ' that wandering knight so fair . ' And , I prithee , sweet wag , when thou art king , as , God save thy grace , --majesty I should say , for grace thou wilt have none , --
PRINCE HENRY : What , none ?
FALSTAFF : No , by my troth , not so much as will serve to prologue to an egg and butter .
PRINCE HENRY : Well , how then ? come , roundly , roundly .
FALSTAFF : Marry , then , sweet wag , when thou art king , let not us that are squires of the night 's body be called thieves of the day 's beauty : let us be Diana 's foresters , gentlemen of the shade , minions of the moon ; and let men say we be men of good government , being governed , as the sea is , by our noble and chaste mistress the moon , under whose countenance we steal .
PRINCE HENRY : Thou sayest well , and it holds well too ; for the fortune of us that are the moon 's men doth ebb and flow like the sea , being governed , as the sea is , by the moon . As , for proof , now : a purse of gold most resolutely snatched on Monday night and most dissolutely spent on Tuesday morning ; got with swearing ' Lay by ' and spent with crying ' Bring in ; ' now in as low an ebb as the foot of the ladder and by and by in as high a flow as the ridge of the gallows .
FALSTAFF : By the Lord , thou sayest true , lad . And is not my hostess of the tavern a most sweet wench ?
PRINCE HENRY : As the honey of Hybla , my old lad of the castle . And is not a buff jerkin a most sweet robe of durance ?
FALSTAFF : How now , how now , mad wag ! what , in thy quips and thy quiddities ? what a plague have I to do with a buff jerkin ?
PRINCE HENRY : Why , what a pox have I to do with my hostess of the tavern ?
FALSTAFF : Well , thou hast called her to a reckoning many a time and oft .
PRINCE HENRY : Did I ever call for thee to pay thy part ?
FALSTAFF : No ; I 'll give thee thy due , thou hast paid all there .
PRINCE HENRY : Yea , and elsewhere , so far as my coin would stretch ; and where it would not , I have used my credit .
