POINS : Come , let 's hear , Jack ; what trick hast thou now ?
FALSTAFF : By the Lord , I knew ye as well as he that made ye . Why , hear you , my masters : was it for me to kill the heir-apparent ? should I turn upon the true prince ? why , thou knowest I am as valiant as Hercules : but beware instinct ; the lion will not touch the true prince . Instinct is a great matter ; I was now a coward on instinct . I shall think the better of myself and thee during my life ; I for a valiant lion , and thou for a true prince . But , by the Lord , lads , I am glad you have the money . Hostess , clap to the doors : watch to-night , pray to-morrow . Gallants , lads , boys , hearts of gold , all the titles of good fellowship come to you ! What , shall we be merry ? shall we have a play extempore ?
PRINCE HENRY : Content ; and the argument shall be thy running away .
FALSTAFF : Ah , no more of that , Hal , an thou lovest me ! Enter Hostess
Hostess : O Jesu , my lord the prince !
PRINCE HENRY : How now , my lady the hostess ! what sayest thou to me ?
Hostess : Marry , my lord , there is a nobleman of the court at door would speak with you : he says he comes from your father .
PRINCE HENRY : Give him as much as will make him a royal man , and send him back again to my mother .
FALSTAFF : What manner of man is he ?
Hostess : An old man .
FALSTAFF : What doth gravity out of his bed at midnight ? Shall I give him his answer ?
PRINCE HENRY : Prithee , do , Jack .
FALSTAFF : ' Faith , and I 'll send him packing . Exit FALSTAFF
PRINCE HENRY : Now , sirs : by 'r lady , you fought fair ; so did you , Peto ; so did you , Bardolph : you are lions too , you ran away upon instinct , you will not touch the true prince ; no , fie !
BARDOLPH : ' Faith , I ran when I saw others run .
PRINCE HENRY : ' Faith , tell me now in earnest , how came Falstaff 's sword so hacked ?
PETO : Why , he hacked it with his dagger , and said he would swear truth out of England but he would make you believe it was done in fight , and persuaded us to do the like .
BARDOLPH : Yea , and to tickle our noses with spear-grass to make them bleed , and then to beslubber our garments with it and swear it was the blood of true men . I did that I did not this seven year before , I blushed to hear his monstrous devices .
PRINCE HENRY : O villain , thou stolest a cup of sack eighteen years ago , and wert taken with the manner , and ever since thou hast blushed extempore . Thou hadst fire and sword on thy side , and yet thou rannest away : what instinct hadst thou for it ?
BARDOLPH : My lord , do you see these meteors ? do you behold these exhalations ?
PRINCE HENRY : I do .
BARDOLPH : What think you they portend ?
PRINCE HENRY : Hot livers and cold purses .
BARDOLPH : Choler , my lord , if rightly taken .
PRINCE HENRY : No , if rightly taken , halter . Re-enter FALSTAFF Here comes lean Jack , here comes bare-bone . How now , my sweet creature of bombast ! How long is 't ago , Jack , since thou sawest thine own knee ?
