PRINCE HENRY : Heigh , heigh ! the devil rides upon a fiddlestick : what 's the matter ?
Hostess : The sheriff and all the watch are at the door : they are come to search the house . Shall I let them in ?
FALSTAFF : Dost thou hear , Hal ? never call a true piece of gold a counterfeit : thou art essentially mad , without seeming so .
PRINCE HENRY : And thou a natural coward , without instinct .
FALSTAFF : I deny your major : if you will deny the sheriff , so ; if not , let him enter : if I become not a cart as well as another man , a plague on my bringing up ! I hope I shall as soon be strangled with a halter as another .
PRINCE HENRY : Go , hide thee behind the arras : the rest walk up above . Now , my masters , for a true face and good conscience .
FALSTAFF : Both which I have had : but their date is out , and therefore I 'll hide me .
PRINCE HENRY : Call in the sheriff . Enter Sheriff and the Carrier Now , master sheriff , what is your will with me ?
Sheriff : First , pardon me , my lord . A hue and cry Hath follow 'd certain men unto this house .
PRINCE HENRY : What men ?
Sheriff : One of them is well known , my gracious lord , A gross fat man .
Carrier : As fat as butter .
PRINCE HENRY : The man , I do assure you , is not here ; For I myself at this time have employ 'd him . And , sheriff , I will engage my word to thee That I will , by to-morrow dinner-time , Send him to answer thee , or any man , For any thing he shall be charged withal : And so let me entreat you leave the house .
Sheriff : I will , my lord . There are two gentlemen Have in this robbery lost three hundred marks .
PRINCE HENRY : It may be so : if he have robb 'd these men , He shall be answerable ; and so farewell .
Sheriff : Good night , my noble lord .
PRINCE HENRY : I think it is good morrow , is it not ?
Sheriff : Indeed , my lord , I think it be two o 'clock .
PRINCE HENRY : This oily rascal is known as well as Paul 's . Go , call him forth .
PETO : Falstaff ! --Fast asleep behind the arras , and snorting like a horse .
PRINCE HENRY : Hark , how hard he fetches breath . Search his pockets . He searcheth his pockets , and findeth certain papers What hast thou found ?
PETO : Nothing but papers , my lord .
PRINCE HENRY : Let 's see what they be : read them .
PETO : Item , A capon , . . 2s . 2d . Item , Sauce , . . . 4d . Item , Sack , two gallons , 5s . 8d . Item , Anchovies and sack after supper , 2s . 6d . Item , Bread , ob .
PRINCE HENRY : O monstrous ! but one half-penny-worth of bread to this intolerable deal of sack ! What there is else , keep close ; we 'll read it at more advantage : there let him sleep till day . I 'll to the court in the morning . We must all to the wars , and thy place shall be honourable . I 'll procure this fat rogue a charge of foot ; and I know his death will be a march of twelve-score . The money shall be paid back again with advantage . Be with me betimes in the morning ; and so , good morrow , Peto .
PETO : Good morrow , good my lord . Enter HOTSPUR , WORCESTER , MORTIMER , and GLENDOWER
MORTIMER : These promises are fair , the parties sure , And our induction full of prosperous hope .
HOTSPUR : Lord Mortimer , and cousin Glendower , Will you sit down ? And uncle Worcester : a plague upon it ! I have forgot the map .
