Hostess : Nay , my lord , he called you Jack , and said he would cudgel you .
FALSTAFF : Did I , Bardolph ?
BARDOLPH : Indeed , Sir John , you said so .
FALSTAFF : Yea , if he said my ring was copper .
PRINCE HENRY : I say ' tis copper : darest thou be as good as thy word now ?
FALSTAFF : Why , Hal , thou knowest , as thou art but man , I dare : but as thou art prince , I fear thee as I fear the roaring of a lion 's whelp .
PRINCE HENRY : And why not as the lion ?
FALSTAFF : The king is to be feared as the lion : dost thou think I 'll fear thee as I fear thy father ? nay , an I do , I pray God my girdle break .
PRINCE HENRY : O , if it should , how would thy guts fall about thy knees ! But , sirrah , there 's no room for faith , truth , nor honesty in this bosom of thine ; it is all filled up with guts and midriff . Charge an honest woman with picking thy pocket ! why , thou whoreson , impudent , embossed rascal , if there were anything in thy pocket but tavern-reckonings , memorandums of bawdy-houses , and one poor penny-worth of sugar-candy to make thee long-winded , if thy pocket were enriched with any other injuries but these , I am a villain : and yet you will stand to if ; you will not pocket up wrong : art thou not ashamed ?
FALSTAFF : Dost thou hear , Hal ? thou knowest in the state of innocency Adam fell ; and what should poor Jack Falstaff do in the days of villany ? Thou seest I have more flesh than another man , and therefore more frailty . You confess then , you picked my pocket ?
PRINCE HENRY : It appears so by the story .
FALSTAFF : Hostess , I forgive thee : go , make ready breakfast ; love thy husband , look to thy servants , cherish thy guests : thou shalt find me tractable to any honest reason : thou seest I am pacified still . Nay , prithee , be gone . Exit Hostess Now Hal , to the news at court : for the robbery , lad , how is that answered ?
PRINCE HENRY : O , my sweet beef , I must still be good angel to thee : the money is paid back again .
FALSTAFF : O , I do not like that paying back ; ' tis a double labour .
PRINCE HENRY : I am good friends with my father and may do any thing .
FALSTAFF : Rob me the exchequer the first thing thou doest , and do it with unwashed hands too .
BARDOLPH : Do , my lord .
PRINCE HENRY : I have procured thee , Jack , a charge of foot .
FALSTAFF : I would it had been of horse . Where shall I find one that can steal well ? O for a fine thief , of the age of two and twenty or thereabouts ! I am heinously unprovided . Well , God be thanked for these rebels , they offend none but the virtuous : I laud them , I praise them .
PRINCE HENRY : Bardolph !
BARDOLPH : My lord ?
PRINCE HENRY : Go bear this letter to Lord John of Lancaster , to my brother John ; this to my Lord of Westmoreland . Exit Bardolph Go , Peto , to horse , to horse ; for thou and I have thirty miles to ride yet ere dinner time . Exit Peto Jack , meet me to-morrow in the temple hall at two o 'clock in the afternoon . There shalt thou know thy charge ; and there receive Money and order for their furniture . The land is burning ; Percy stands on high ; And either we or they must lower lie . Exit PRINCE HENRY
FALSTAFF : Rare words ! brave world ! Hostess , my breakfast , come ! O , I could wish this tavern were my drum ! Exit Enter HOTSPUR , WORCESTER , and DOUGLAS
