EARL OF WORCESTER : In faith , my lord , you are too wilful-blame ; And since your coming hither have done enough To put him quite beside his patience . You must needs learn , lord , to amend this fault : Though sometimes it show greatness , courage , blood , -- And that 's the dearest grace it renders you , -- Yet oftentimes it doth present harsh rage , Defect of manners , want of government , Pride , haughtiness , opinion and disdain : The least of which haunting a nobleman Loseth men 's hearts and leaves behind a stain Upon the beauty of all parts besides , Beguiling them of commendation .
HOTSPUR : Well , I am school 'd : good manners be your speed ! Here come our wives , and let us take our leave . Re-enter GLENDOWER with the ladies
MORTIMER : This is the deadly spite that angers me ; My wife can speak no English , I no Welsh .
GLENDOWER : My daughter weeps : she will not part with you ; She 'll be a soldier too , she 'll to the wars .
MORTIMER : Good father , tell her that she and my aunt Percy Shall follow in your conduct speedily . Glendower speaks to her in Welsh , and she answers him in the same
GLENDOWER : She is desperate here ; a peevish self-wind harlotry , one that no persuasion can do good upon . The lady speaks in Welsh
MORTIMER : I understand thy looks : that pretty Welsh Which thou pour 'st down from these swelling heavens I am too perfect in ; and , but for shame , In such a parley should I answer thee . The lady speaks again in Welsh I understand thy kisses and thou mine , And that 's a feeling disputation : But I will never be a truant , love , Till I have learned thy language ; for thy tongue Makes Welsh as sweet as ditties highly penn 'd , Sung by a fair queen in a summer 's bower , With ravishing division , to her lute .
GLENDOWER : Nay , if you melt , then will she run mad . The lady speaks again in Welsh
MORTIMER : O , I am ignorance itself in this !
GLENDOWER : She bids you on the wanton rushes lay you down And rest your gentle head upon her lap , And she will sing the song that pleaseth you And on your eyelids crown the god of sleep . Charming your blood with pleasing heaviness , Making such difference ' twixt wake and sleep As is the difference betwixt day and night The hour before the heavenly-harness 'd team Begins his golden progress in the east .
MORTIMER : With all my heart I 'll sit and hear her sing : By that time will our book , I think , be drawn
GLENDOWER : Do so ; And those musicians that shall play to you Hang in the air a thousand leagues from hence , And straight they shall be here : sit , and attend .
HOTSPUR : Come , Kate , thou art perfect in lying down : come , quick , quick , that I may lay my head in thy lap .
LADY PERCY : Go , ye giddy goose . The music plays
HOTSPUR : Now I perceive the devil understands Welsh ; And ' tis no marvel he is so humorous . By 'r lady , he is a good musician .
LADY PERCY : Then should you be nothing but musical for you are altogether governed by humours . Lie still , ye thief , and hear the lady sing in Welsh .
HOTSPUR : I had rather hear Lady , my brach , howl in Irish .
LADY PERCY : Wouldst thou have thy head broken ?
HOTSPUR : No .
LADY PERCY : Then be still .
HOTSPUR : Neither ; ' tis a woman 's fault .
LADY PERCY : Now God help thee !
HOTSPUR : To the Welsh lady 's bed .
LADY PERCY : What 's that ?
HOTSPUR : Peace ! she sings . Here the lady sings a Welsh song
HOTSPUR : Come , Kate , I 'll have your song too .
LADY PERCY : Not mine , in good sooth .
