HOTSPUR : The king is kind ; and well we know the king Knows at what time to promise , when to pay . My father and my uncle and myself Did give him that same royalty he wears ; And when he was not six and twenty strong , Sick in the world 's regard , wretched and low , A poor unminded outlaw sneaking home , My father gave him welcome to the shore ; And when he heard him swear and vow to God He came but to be Duke of Lancaster , To sue his livery and beg his peace , With tears of innocency and terms of zeal , My father , in kind heart and pity moved , Swore him assistance and perform 'd it too . Now when the lords and barons of the realm Perceived Northumberland did lean to him , The more and less came in with cap and knee ; Met him in boroughs , cities , villages , Attended him on bridges , stood in lanes , Laid gifts before him , proffer 'd him their oaths , Gave him their heirs , as pages follow 'd him Even at the heels in golden multitudes . He presently , as greatness knows itself , Steps me a little higher than his vow Made to my father , while his blood was poor , Upon the naked shore at Ravenspurgh ; And now , forsooth , takes on him to reform Some certain edicts and some strait decrees That lie too heavy on the commonwealth , Cries out upon abuses , seems to weep Over his country 's wrongs ; and by this face , This seeming brow of justice , did he win The hearts of all that he did angle for ; Proceeded further ; cut me off the heads Of all the favourites that the absent king In deputation left behind him here , When he was personal in the Irish war .
SIR WALTER BLUNT : Tut , I came not to hear this .
HOTSPUR : Then to the point . In short time after , he deposed the king ; Soon after that , deprived him of his life ; And in the neck of that , task 'd the whole state : To make that worse , suffer 'd his kinsman March , Who is , if every owner were well placed , Indeed his king , to be engaged in Wales , There without ransom to lie forfeited ; Disgraced me in my happy victories , Sought to entrap me by intelligence ; Rated mine uncle from the council-board ; In rage dismiss 'd my father from the court ; Broke oath on oath , committed wrong on wrong , And in conclusion drove us to seek out This head of safety ; and withal to pry Into his title , the which we find Too indirect for long continuance .
SIR WALTER BLUNT : Shall I return this answer to the king ?
HOTSPUR : Not so , Sir Walter : we 'll withdraw awhile . Go to the king ; and let there be impawn 'd Some surety for a safe return again , And in the morning early shall my uncle Bring him our purposes : and so farewell .
SIR WALTER BLUNT : I would you would accept of grace and love .
HOTSPUR : And may be so we shall .
SIR WALTER BLUNT : Pray God you do . Enter the ARCHBISHOP OF YORK and SIR MICHAEL
ARCHBISHOP OF YORK : Hie , good Sir Michael ; bear this sealed brief With winged haste to the lord marshal ; This to my cousin Scroop , and all the rest To whom they are directed . If you knew How much they do to import , you would make haste .
SIR MICHAEL : My good lord , I guess their tenor .
