HOTSPUR : Revolted Mortimer ! He never did fall off , my sovereign liege , But by the chance of war ; to prove that true Needs no more but one tongue for all those wounds , Those mouthed wounds , which valiantly he took When on the gentle Severn 's sedgy bank , In single opposition , hand to hand , He did confound the best part of an hour In changing hardiment with great Glendower : Three times they breathed and three times did they drink , Upon agreement , of swift Severn 's flood ; Who then , affrighted with their bloody looks , Ran fearfully among the trembling reeds , And hid his crisp head in the hollow bank , Bloodstained with these valiant combatants . Never did base and rotten policy Colour her working with such deadly wounds ; Nor could the noble Mortimer Receive so many , and all willingly : Then let not him be slander 'd with revolt .
KING HENRY IV : Thou dost belie him , Percy , thou dost belie him ; He never did encounter with Glendower : I tell thee , He durst as well have met the devil alone As Owen Glendower for an enemy . Art thou not ashamed ? But , sirrah , henceforth Let me not hear you speak of Mortimer : Send me your prisoners with the speediest means , Or you shall hear in such a kind from me As will displease you . My Lord Northumberland , We licence your departure with your son . Send us your prisoners , or you will hear of it .
HOTSPUR : An if the devil come and roar for them , I will not send them : I will after straight And tell him so ; for I will ease my heart , Albeit I make a hazard of my head .
NORTHUMBERLAND : What , drunk with choler ? stay and pause awhile : Here comes your uncle . Re-enter WORCESTER
HOTSPUR : Speak of Mortimer ! ' Zounds , I will speak of him ; and let my soul Want mercy , if I do not join with him : Yea , on his part I 'll empty all these veins , And shed my dear blood drop by drop in the dust , But I will lift the down-trod Mortimer As high in the air as this unthankful king , As this ingrate and canker 'd Bolingbroke .
NORTHUMBERLAND : Brother , the king hath made your nephew mad .
EARL OF WORCESTER : Who struck this heat up after I was gone ?
HOTSPUR : He will , forsooth , have all my prisoners ; And when I urged the ransom once again Of my wife 's brother , then his cheek look 'd pale , And on my face he turn 'd an eye of death , Trembling even at the name of Mortimer .
EARL OF WORCESTER : I cannot blame him : was not he proclaim 'd By Richard that dead is the next of blood ?
NORTHUMBERLAND : He was ; I heard the proclamation : And then it was when the unhappy king , --Whose wrongs in us God pardon ! --did set forth Upon his Irish expedition ; From whence he intercepted did return To be deposed and shortly murdered .
EARL OF WORCESTER : And for whose death we in the world 's wide mouth Live scandalized and foully spoken of .
HOTSPUR : But soft , I pray you ; did King Richard then Proclaim my brother Edmund Mortimer Heir to the crown ?
NORTHUMBERLAND : He did ; myself did hear it .
