VERNON : Pray God my news be worth a welcome , lord . The Earl of Westmoreland , seven thousand strong , Is marching hitherwards ; with him Prince John .
HOTSPUR : No harm : what more ?
VERNON : And further , I have learn 'd , The king himself in person is set forth , Or hitherwards intended speedily , With strong and mighty preparation .
HOTSPUR : He shall be welcome too . Where is his son , The nimble-footed madcap Prince of Wales , And his comrades , that daff 'd the world aside , And bid it pass ?
VERNON : All furnish 'd , all in arms ; All plumed like estridges that with the wind Baited like eagles having lately bathed ; Glittering in golden coats , like images ; As full of spirit as the month of May , And gorgeous as the sun at midsummer ; Wanton as youthful goats , wild as young bulls . I saw young Harry , with his beaver on , His cuisses on his thighs , gallantly arm 'd Rise from the ground like feather 'd Mercury , And vaulted with such ease into his seat , As if an angel dropp 'd down from the clouds , To turn and wind a fiery Pegasus And witch the world with noble horsemanship .
HOTSPUR : No more , no more : worse than the sun in March , This praise doth nourish agues . Let them come : They come like sacrifices in their trim , And to the fire-eyed maid of smoky war All hot and bleeding will we offer them : The mailed Mars shall on his altar sit Up to the ears in blood . I am on fire To hear this rich reprisal is so nigh And yet not ours . Come , let me taste my horse , Who is to bear me like a thunderbolt Against the bosom of the Prince of Wales : Harry to Harry shall , hot horse to horse , Meet and ne 'er part till one drop down a corse . O that Glendower were come !
VERNON : There is more news : I learn 'd in Worcester , as I rode along , He cannot draw his power this fourteen days .
EARL OF DOUGLAS : That 's the worst tidings that I hear of yet .
WORCESTER : Ay , by my faith , that bears a frosty sound .
HOTSPUR : What may the king 's whole battle reach unto ?
VERNON : To thirty thousand .
HOTSPUR : Forty let it be : My father and Glendower being both away , The powers of us may serve so great a day Come , let us take a muster speedily : Doomsday is near ; die all , die merrily .
EARL OF DOUGLAS : Talk not of dying : I am out of fear Of death or death 's hand for this one-half year . Enter FALSTAFF and BARDOLPH
FALSTAFF : Bardolph , get thee before to Coventry ; fill me a bottle of sack : our soldiers shall march through ; we 'll to Sutton Co 'fil ' tonight .
BARDOLPH : Will you give me money , captain ?
FALSTAFF : Lay out , lay out .
BARDOLPH : This bottle makes an angel .
FALSTAFF : An if it do , take it for thy labour ; and if it make twenty , take them all ; I 'll answer the coinage . Bid my lieutenant Peto meet me at town 's end .
BARDOLPH : I will , captain : farewell . Exit
