PRINCE HENRY : I shall hereafter , my thrice gracious lord , Be more myself .
KING HENRY IV : For all the world As thou art to this hour was Richard then When I from France set foot at Ravenspurgh , And even as I was then is Percy now . Now , by my sceptre and my soul to boot , He hath more worthy interest to the state Than thou the shadow of succession ; For of no right , nor colour like to right , He doth fill fields with harness in the realm , Turns head against the lion 's armed jaws , And , being no more in debt to years than thou , Leads ancient lords and reverend bishops on To bloody battles and to bruising arms . What never-dying honour hath he got Against renowned Douglas ! whose high deeds , Whose hot incursions and great name in arms Holds from all soldiers chief majority And military title capital Through all the kingdoms that acknowledge Christ : Thrice hath this Hotspur , Mars in swathling clothes , This infant warrior , in his enterprises Discomfited great Douglas , ta 'en him once , Enlarged him and made a friend of him , To fill the mouth of deep defiance up And shake the peace and safety of our throne . And what say you to this ? Percy , Northumberland , The Archbishop 's grace of York , Douglas , Mortimer , Capitulate against us and are up . But wherefore do I tell these news to thee ? Why , Harry , do I tell thee of my foes , Which art my near 'st and dearest enemy ? Thou that art like enough , through vassal fear , Base inclination and the start of spleen To fight against me under Percy 's pay , To dog his heels and curtsy at his frowns , To show how much thou art degenerate .
PRINCE HENRY : Do not think so ; you shall not find it so : And God forgive them that so much have sway 'd Your majesty 's good thoughts away from me ! I will redeem all this on Percy 's head And in the closing of some glorious day Be bold to tell you that I am your son ; When I will wear a garment all of blood And stain my favours in a bloody mask , Which , wash 'd away , shall scour my shame with it : And that shall be the day , whene 'er it lights , That this same child of honour and renown , This gallant Hotspur , this all-praised knight , And your unthought-of Harry chance to meet . For every honour sitting on his helm , Would they were multitudes , and on my head My shames redoubled ! for the time will come , That I shall make this northern youth exchange His glorious deeds for my indignities . Percy is but my factor , good my lord , To engross up glorious deeds on my behalf ; And I will call him to so strict account , That he shall render every glory up , Yea , even the slightest worship of his time , Or I will tear the reckoning from his heart . This , in the name of God , I promise here : The which if He be pleased I shall perform , I do beseech your majesty may salve The long-grown wounds of my intemperance : If not , the end of life cancels all bands ; And I will die a hundred thousand deaths Ere break the smallest parcel of this vow .
KING HENRY IV : A hundred thousand rebels die in this : Thou shalt have charge and sovereign trust herein . Enter BLUNT How now , good Blunt ? thy looks are full of speed .
SIR WALTER BLUNT : So hath the business that I come to speak of . Lord Mortimer of Scotland hath sent word That Douglas and the English rebels met The eleventh of this month at Shrewsbury A mighty and a fearful head they are , If promises be kept on every hand , As ever offer 'd foul play in the state .
