FALSTAFF : Dowlas , filthy dowlas : I have given them away to bakers ' wives , and they have made bolters of them .
Hostess : Now , as I am a true woman , holland of eight shillings an ell . You owe money here besides , Sir John , for your diet and by-drinkings , and money lent you , four and twenty pound .
FALSTAFF : He had his part of it ; let him pay .
Hostess : He ? alas , he is poor ; he hath nothing .
FALSTAFF : How ! poor ? look upon his face ; what call you rich ? let them coin his nose , let them coin his cheeks : Ill not pay a denier . What , will you make a younker of me ? shall I not take mine case in mine inn but I shall have my pocket picked ? I have lost a seal-ring of my grandfather 's worth forty mark .
Hostess : O Jesu , I have heard the prince tell him , I know not how oft , that ring was copper !
FALSTAFF : How ! the prince is a Jack , a sneak-cup : ' sblood , an he were here , I would cudgel him like a dog , if he would say so . Enter PRINCE HENRY and PETO , marching , and FALSTAFF meets them playing on his truncheon like a life How now , lad ! is the wind in that door , i ' faith ? must we all march ?
BARDOLPH : Yea , two and two , Newgate fashion .
Hostess : My lord , I pray you , hear me .
PRINCE HENRY : What sayest thou , Mistress Quickly ? How doth thy husband ? I love him well ; he is an honest man .
Hostess : Good my lord , hear me .
FALSTAFF : Prithee , let her alone , and list to me .
PRINCE HENRY : What sayest thou , Jack ?
FALSTAFF : The other night I fell asleep here behind the arras and had my pocket picked : this house is turned bawdy-house ; they pick pockets .
PRINCE HENRY : What didst thou lose , Jack ?
FALSTAFF : Wilt thou believe me , Hal ? three or four bonds of forty pound apiece , and a seal-ring of my grandfather 's .
PRINCE HENRY : A trifle , some eight-penny matter .
Hostess : So I told him , my lord ; and I said I heard your grace say so : and , my lord , he speaks most vilely of you , like a foul-mouthed man as he is ; and said he would cudgel you .
PRINCE HENRY : What ! he did not ?
Hostess : There 's neither faith , truth , nor womanhood in me else .
FALSTAFF : There 's no more faith in thee than in a stewed prune ; nor no more truth in thee than in a drawn fox ; and for womanhood , Maid Marian may be the deputy 's wife of the ward to thee . Go , you thing , go
Hostess : Say , what thing ? what thing ?
FALSTAFF : What thing ! why , a thing to thank God on .
Hostess : I am no thing to thank God on , I would thou shouldst know it ; I am an honest man 's wife : and , setting thy knighthood aside , thou art a knave to call me so .
FALSTAFF : Setting thy womanhood aside , thou art a beast to say otherwise .
Hostess : Say , what beast , thou knave , thou ?
FALSTAFF : What beast ! why , an otter .
PRINCE HENRY : An otter , Sir John ! Why an otter ?
FALSTAFF : Why , she 's neither fish nor flesh ; a man knows not where to have her .
Hostess : Thou art an unjust man in saying so : thou or any man knows where to have me , thou knave , thou !
PRINCE HENRY : Thou sayest true , hostess ; and he slanders thee most grossly .
Hostess : So he doth you , my lord ; and said this other day you ought him a thousand pound .
PRINCE HENRY : Sirrah , do I owe you a thousand pound ?
