EARL OF DOUGLAS : Thou art the king of honour : No man so potent breathes upon the ground But I will beard him .
HOTSPUR : Do so , and ' tis well . Enter a Messenger with letters What letters hast thou there ? --I can but thank you .
Messenger : These letters come from your father .
HOTSPUR : Letters from him ! why comes he not himself ?
Messenger : He cannot come , my lord ; he is grievous sick .
HOTSPUR : ' Zounds ! how has he the leisure to be sick In such a rustling time ? Who leads his power ? Under whose government come they along ?
Messenger : His letters bear his mind , not I , my lord .
EARL OF WORCESTER : I prithee , tell me , doth he keep his bed ?
Messenger : He did , my lord , four days ere I set forth ; And at the time of my departure thence He was much fear 'd by his physicians .
EARL OF WORCESTER : I would the state of time had first been whole Ere he by sickness had been visited : His health was never better worth than now .
HOTSPUR : Sick now ! droop now ! this sickness doth infect The very life-blood of our enterprise ; ' Tis catching hither , even to our camp . He writes me here , that inward sickness-- And that his friends by deputation could not So soon be drawn , nor did he think it meet To lay so dangerous and dear a trust On any soul removed but on his own . Yet doth he give us bold advertisement , That with our small conjunction we should on , To see how fortune is disposed to us ; For , as he writes , there is no quailing now . Because the king is certainly possess 'd Of all our purposes . What say you to it ?
EARL OF WORCESTER : Your father 's sickness is a maim to us .
HOTSPUR : A perilous gash , a very limb lopp 'd off : And yet , in faith , it is not ; his present want Seems more than we shall find it : were it good To set the exact wealth of all our states All at one cast ? to set so rich a main On the nice hazard of one doubtful hour ? It were not good ; for therein should we read The very bottom and the soul of hope , The very list , the very utmost bound Of all our fortunes .
EARL OF DOUGLAS : ' Faith , and so we should ; Where now remains a sweet reversion : We may boldly spend upon the hope of what Is to come in : A comfort of retirement lives in this .
HOTSPUR : A rendezvous , a home to fly unto . If that the devil and mischance look big Upon the maidenhead of our affairs .
EARL OF WORCESTER : But yet I would your father had been here . The quality and hair of our attempt Brooks no division : it will be thought By some , that know not why he is away , That wisdom , loyalty and mere dislike Of our proceedings kept the earl from hence : And think how such an apprehension May turn the tide of fearful faction And breed a kind of question in our cause ; For well you know we of the offering side Must keep aloof from strict arbitrement , And stop all sight-holes , every loop from whence The eye of reason may pry in upon us : This absence of your father 's draws a curtain , That shows the ignorant a kind of fear Before not dreamt of .
HOTSPUR : You strain too far . I rather of his absence make this use : It lends a lustre and more great opinion , A larger dare to our great enterprise , Than if the earl were here ; for men must think , If we without his help can make a head To push against a kingdom , with his help We shall o 'erturn it topsy-turvy down . Yet all goes well , yet all our joints are whole .
EARL OF DOUGLAS : As heart can think : there is not such a word Spoke of in Scotland as this term of fear . Enter SIR RICHARD VERNON
