GADSHILL : I pray thee , lend me thine .
Second Carrier : Ay , when ? can 'st tell ? Lend me thy lantern , quoth he ? marry , I 'll see thee hanged first .
GADSHILL : Sirrah carrier , what time do you mean to come to London ?
Second Carrier : Time enough to go to bed with a candle , I warrant thee . Come , neighbour Mugs , we 'll call up the gentleman : they will along with company , for they have great charge .
GADSHILL : What , ho ! chamberlain !
Chamberlain : At hand , quoth pick-purse .
GADSHILL : That 's even as fair as--at hand , quoth the chamberlain ; for thou variest no more from picking of purses than giving direction doth from labouring ; thou layest the plot how . Enter Chamberlain
Chamberlain : Good morrow , Master Gadshill . It holds current that I told you yesternight : there 's a franklin in the wild of Kent hath brought three hundred marks with him in gold : I heard him tell it to one of his company last night at supper ; a kind of auditor ; one that hath abundance of charge too , God knows what . They are up already , and call for eggs and butter ; they will away presently .
GADSHILL : Sirrah , if they meet not with Saint Nicholas ' clerks , I 'll give thee this neck .
Chamberlain : No , I 'll none of it : I pray thee keep that for the hangman ; for I know thou worshippest St. Nicholas as truly as a man of falsehood may .
GADSHILL : What talkest thou to me of the hangman ? if I hang , I 'll make a fat pair of gallows ; for if I hang , old Sir John hangs with me , and thou knowest he is no starveling . Tut ! there are other Trojans that thou dreamest not of , the which for sport sake are content to do the profession some grace ; that would , if matters should be looked into , for their own credit sake , make all whole . I am joined with no foot-land rakers , no long-staff sixpenny strikers , none of these mad mustachio purple-hued malt-worms ; but with nobility and tranquillity , burgomasters and great oneyers , such as can hold in , such as will strike sooner than speak , and speak sooner than drink , and drink sooner than pray : and yet , zounds , I lie ; for they pray continually to their saint , the commonwealth ; or rather , not pray to her , but prey on her , for they ride up and down on her and make her their boots .
Chamberlain : What , the commonwealth their boots ? will she hold out water in foul way ?
GADSHILL : She will , she will ; justice hath liquored her . We steal as in a castle , cocksure ; we have the receipt of fern-seed , we walk invisible .
Chamberlain : Nay , by my faith , I think you are more beholding to the night than to fern-seed for your walking invisible .
GADSHILL : Give me thy hand : thou shalt have a share in our purchase , as I am a true man .
Chamberlain : Nay , rather let me have it , as you are a false thief .
GADSHILL : Go to ; ' homo ' is a common name to all men . Bid the ostler bring my gelding out of the stable . Farewell , you muddy knave . Enter PRINCE HENRY and POINS
POINS : Come , shelter , shelter : I have removed Falstaff 's horse , and he frets like a gummed velvet .
PRINCE HENRY : Stand close . Enter FALSTAFF
FALSTAFF : Poins ! Poins , and be hanged ! Poins !
PRINCE HENRY : Peace , ye fat-kidneyed rascal ! what a brawling dost thou keep !
FALSTAFF : Where 's Poins , Hal ?
PRINCE HENRY : He is walked up to the top of the hill : I 'll go seek him .
