Scene III : Eastcheap . The Boar 's-Head Tavern . Enter FALSTAFF and BARDOLPH
FALSTAFF : Bardolph , am I not fallen away vilely since this last action ? do I not bate ? do I not dwindle ? Why my skin hangs about me like an like an old lady 's loose gown ; I am withered like an old apple-john . Well , I 'll repent , and that suddenly , while I am in some liking ; I shall be out of heart shortly , and then I shall have no strength to repent . An I have not forgotten what the inside of a church is made of , I am a peppercorn , a brewer 's horse : the inside of a church ! Company , villanous company , hath been the spoil of me .
BARDOLPH : Sir John , you are so fretful , you cannot live long .
FALSTAFF : Why , there is it : come sing me a bawdy song ; make me merry . I was as virtuously given as a gentleman need to be ; virtuous enough ; swore little ; diced not above seven times a week ; went to a bawdy-house once in a quarter--of an hour ; paid money that I borrowed , three of four times ; lived well and in good compass : and now I live out of all order , out of all compass .
BARDOLPH : Why , you are so fat , Sir John , that you must needs be out of all compass , out of all reasonable compass , Sir John .
FALSTAFF : Do thou amend thy face , and I 'll amend my life : thou art our admiral , thou bearest the lantern in the poop , but ' tis in the nose of thee ; thou art the Knight of the Burning Lamp .
BARDOLPH : Why , Sir John , my face does you no harm .
FALSTAFF : No , I 'll be sworn ; I make as good use of it as many a man doth of a Death 's-head or a memento mori : I never see thy face but I think upon hell-fire and Dives that lived in purple ; for there he is in his robes , burning , burning . If thou wert any way given to virtue , I would swear by thy face ; my oath should be ' By this fire , that 's God 's angel : ' but thou art altogether given over ; and wert indeed , but for the light in thy face , the son of utter darkness . When thou rannest up Gadshill in the night to catch my horse , if I did not think thou hadst been an ignis fatuus or a ball of wildfire , there 's no purchase in money . O , thou art a perpetual triumph , an everlasting bonfire-light ! Thou hast saved me a thousand marks in links and torches , walking with thee in the night betwixt tavern and tavern : but the sack that thou hast drunk me would have bought me lights as good cheap at the dearest chandler 's in Europe . I have maintained that salamander of yours with fire any time this two and thirty years ; God reward me for it !
BARDOLPH : ' Sblood , I would my face were in your belly !
FALSTAFF : God-a-mercy ! so should I be sure to be heart-burned . Enter Hostess How now , Dame Partlet the hen ! have you inquired yet who picked my pocket ?
Hostess : Why , Sir John , what do you think , Sir John ? do you think I keep thieves in my house ? I have searched , I have inquired , so has my husband , man by man , boy by boy , servant by servant : the tithe of a hair was never lost in my house before .
FALSTAFF : Ye lie , hostess : Bardolph was shaved and lost many a hair ; and I 'll be sworn my pocket was picked . Go to , you are a woman , go .
Hostess : Who , I ? no ; I defy thee : God 's light , I was never called so in mine own house before .
FALSTAFF : Go to , I know you well enough .
