POINS : You will , chops ?
FALSTAFF : Hal , wilt thou make one ?
PRINCE HENRY : Who , I rob ? I a thief ? not I , by my faith .
FALSTAFF : There 's neither honesty , manhood , nor good fellowship in thee , nor thou camest not of the blood royal , if thou darest not stand for ten shillings .
PRINCE HENRY : Well then , once in my days I 'll be a madcap .
FALSTAFF : Why , that 's well said .
PRINCE HENRY : Well , come what will , I 'll tarry at home .
FALSTAFF : By the Lord , I 'll be a traitor then , when thou art king .
PRINCE HENRY : I care not .
POINS : Sir John , I prithee , leave the prince and me alone : I will lay him down such reasons for this adventure that he shall go .
FALSTAFF : Well , God give thee the spirit of persuasion and him the ears of profiting , that what thou speakest may move and what he hears may be believed , that the true prince may , for recreation sake , prove a false thief ; for the poor abuses of the time want countenance . Farewell : you shall find me in Eastcheap .
PRINCE HENRY : Farewell , thou latter spring ! farewell , All-hallown summer ! Exit Falstaff
POINS : Now , my good sweet honey lord , ride with us to-morrow : I have a jest to execute that I cannot manage alone . Falstaff , Bardolph , Peto and Gadshill shall rob those men that we have already waylaid : yourself and I will not be there ; and when they have the booty , if you and I do not rob them , cut this head off from my shoulders .
PRINCE HENRY : How shall we part with them in setting forth ?
POINS : Why , we will set forth before or after them , and appoint them a place of meeting , wherein it is at our pleasure to fail , and then will they adventure upon the exploit themselves ; which they shall have no sooner achieved , but we 'll set upon them .
PRINCE HENRY : Yea , but ' tis like that they will know us by our horses , by our habits and by every other appointment , to be ourselves .
POINS : Tut ! our horses they shall not see : I 'll tie them in the wood ; our vizards we will change after we leave them : and , sirrah , I have cases of buckram for the nonce , to immask our noted outward garments .
PRINCE HENRY : Yea , but I doubt they will be too hard for us .
POINS : Well , for two of them , I know them to be as true-bred cowards as ever turned back ; and for the third , if he fight longer than he sees reason , I 'll forswear arms . The virtue of this jest will be , the incomprehensible lies that this same fat rogue will tell us when we meet at supper : how thirty , at least , he fought with ; what wards , what blows , what extremities he endured ; and in the reproof of this lies the jest .
PRINCE HENRY : Well , I 'll go with thee : provide us all things necessary and meet me to-morrow night in Eastcheap ; there I 'll sup . Farewell .
POINS : Farewell , my lord . Exit Poins
