PRINCE HENRY : What , fought you with them all ?
FALSTAFF : All ! I know not what you call all ; but if I fought not with fifty of them , I am a bunch of radish : if there were not two or three and fifty upon poor old Jack , then am I no two-legged creature .
PRINCE HENRY : Pray God you have not murdered some of them .
FALSTAFF : Nay , that 's past praying for : I have peppered two of them ; two I am sure I have paid , two rogues in buckram suits . I tell thee what , Hal , if I tell thee a lie , spit in my face , call me horse . Thou knowest my old ward ; here I lay and thus I bore my point . Four rogues in buckram let drive at me--
PRINCE HENRY : What , four ? thou saidst but two even now .
FALSTAFF : Four , Hal ; I told thee four .
POINS : Ay , ay , he said four .
FALSTAFF : These four came all a-front , and mainly thrust at me . I made me no more ado but took all their seven points in my target , thus .
PRINCE HENRY : Seven ? why , there were but four even now .
FALSTAFF : In buckram ?
POINS : Ay , four , in buckram suits .
FALSTAFF : Seven , by these hilts , or I am a villain else .
PRINCE HENRY : Prithee , let him alone ; we shall have more anon .
FALSTAFF : Dost thou hear me , Hal ?
PRINCE HENRY : Ay , and mark thee too , Jack .
FALSTAFF : Do so , for it is worth the listening to . These nine in buckram that I told thee of--
PRINCE HENRY : So , two more already .
FALSTAFF : Their points being broken , --
POINS : Down fell their hose .
FALSTAFF : Began to give me ground : but I followed me close , came in foot and hand ; and with a thought seven of the eleven I paid .
PRINCE HENRY : O monstrous ! eleven buckram men grown out of two !
FALSTAFF : But , as the devil would have it , three misbegotten knaves in Kendal green came at my back and let drive at me ; for it was so dark , Hal , that thou couldst not see thy hand .
PRINCE HENRY : These lies are like their father that begets them ; gross as a mountain , open , palpable . Why , thou clay-brained guts , thou knotty-pated fool , thou whoreson , obscene , grease tallow-catch , --
FALSTAFF : What , art thou mad ? art thou mad ? is not the truth the truth ?
PRINCE HENRY : Why , how couldst thou know these men in Kendal green , when it was so dark thou couldst not see thy hand ? come , tell us your reason : what sayest thou to this ?
POINS : Come , your reason , Jack , your reason .
FALSTAFF : What , upon compulsion ? ' Zounds , an I were at the strappado , or all the racks in the world , I would not tell you on compulsion . Give you a reason on compulsion ! If reasons were as plentiful as blackberries , I would give no man a reason upon compulsion , I.
PRINCE HENRY : I 'll be no longer guilty of this sin ; this sanguine coward , this bed-presser , this horseback-breaker , this huge hill of flesh , --
FALSTAFF : ' Sblood , you starveling , you elf-skin , you dried neat 's tongue , you bull 's pizzle , you stock-fish ! O for breath to utter what is like thee ! you tailor 's-yard , you sheath , you bowcase ; you vile standing-tuck , --
PRINCE HENRY : Well , breathe awhile , and then to it again : and when thou hast tired thyself in base comparisons , hear me speak but this .
POINS : Mark , Jack .
