POINS : O , Glendower .
FALSTAFF : Owen , Owen , the same ; and his son-in-law Mortimer , and old Northumberland , and that sprightly Scot of Scots , Douglas , that runs o ' horseback up a hill perpendicular , --
PRINCE HENRY : He that rides at high speed and with his pistol kills a sparrow flying .
FALSTAFF : You have hit it .
PRINCE HENRY : So did he never the sparrow .
FALSTAFF : Well , that rascal hath good mettle in him ; he will not run .
PRINCE HENRY : Why , what a rascal art thou then , to praise him so for running !
FALSTAFF : O ' horseback , ye cuckoo ; but afoot he will not budge a foot .
PRINCE HENRY : Yes , Jack , upon instinct .
FALSTAFF : I grant ye , upon instinct . Well , he is there too , and one Mordake , and a thousand blue-caps more : Worcester is stolen away to-night ; thy father 's beard is turned white with the news : you may buy land now as cheap as stinking mackerel .
PRINCE HENRY : Why , then , it is like , if there come a hot June and this civil buffeting hold , we shall buy maidenheads as they buy hob-nails , by the hundreds .
FALSTAFF : By the mass , lad , thou sayest true ; it is like we shall have good trading that way . But tell me , Hal , art not thou horrible afeard ? thou being heir-apparent , could the world pick thee out three such enemies again as that fiend Douglas , that spirit Percy , and that devil Glendower ? Art thou not horribly afraid ? doth not thy blood thrill at it ?
PRINCE HENRY : Not a whit , i ' faith ; I lack some of thy instinct .
FALSTAFF : Well , thou wert be horribly chid tomorrow when thou comest to thy father : if thou love me , practise an answer .
PRINCE HENRY : Do thou stand for my father , and examine me upon the particulars of my life .
FALSTAFF : Shall I ? content : this chair shall be my state , this dagger my sceptre , and this cushion my crown .
PRINCE HENRY : Thy state is taken for a joined-stool , thy golden sceptre for a leaden dagger , and thy precious rich crown for a pitiful bald crown !
FALSTAFF : Well , an the fire of grace be not quite out of thee , now shalt thou be moved . Give me a cup of sack to make my eyes look red , that it may be thought I have wept ; for I must speak in passion , and I will do it in King Cambyses ' vein .
PRINCE HENRY : Well , here is my leg .
FALSTAFF : And here is my speech . Stand aside , nobility .
Hostess : O Jesu , this is excellent sport , i ' faith !
FALSTAFF : Weep not , sweet queen ; for trickling tears are vain .
Hostess : O , the father , how he holds his countenance !
FALSTAFF : For God 's sake , lords , convey my tristful queen ; For tears do stop the flood-gates of her eyes .
Hostess : O Jesu , he doth it as like one of these harlotry players as ever I see !
