PRINCE HENRY : What manner of man , an it like your majesty ?
FALSTAFF : A goodly portly man , i ' faith , and a corpulent ; of a cheerful look , a pleasing eye and a most noble carriage ; and , as I think , his age some fifty , or , by 'r lady , inclining to three score ; and now I remember me , his name is Falstaff : if that man should be lewdly given , he deceiveth me ; for , Harry , I see virtue in his looks . If then the tree may be known by the fruit , as the fruit by the tree , then , peremptorily I speak it , there is virtue in that Falstaff : him keep with , the rest banish . And tell me now , thou naughty varlet , tell me , where hast thou been this month ?
PRINCE HENRY : Dost thou speak like a king ? Do thou stand for me , and I 'll play my father .
FALSTAFF : Depose me ? if thou dost it half so gravely , so majestically , both in word and matter , hang me up by the heels for a rabbit-sucker or a poulter 's hare .
PRINCE HENRY : Well , here I am set .
FALSTAFF : And here I stand : judge , my masters .
PRINCE HENRY : Now , Harry , whence come you ?
FALSTAFF : My noble lord , from Eastcheap .
PRINCE HENRY : The complaints I hear of thee are grievous .
FALSTAFF : ' Sblood , my lord , they are false : nay , I 'll tickle ye for a young prince , i ' faith .
PRINCE HENRY : Swearest thou , ungracious boy ? henceforth ne 'er look on me . Thou art violently carried away from grace : there is a devil haunts thee in the likeness of an old fat man ; a tun of man is thy companion . Why dost thou converse with that trunk of humours , that bolting-hutch of beastliness , that swollen parcel of dropsies , that huge bombard of sack , that stuffed cloak-bag of guts , that roasted Manningtree ox with the pudding in his belly , that reverend vice , that grey iniquity , that father ruffian , that vanity in years ? Wherein is he good , but to taste sack and drink it ? wherein neat and cleanly , but to carve a capon and eat it ? wherein cunning , but in craft ? wherein crafty , but in villany ? wherein villanous , but in all things ? wherein worthy , but in nothing ?
FALSTAFF : I would your grace would take me with you : whom means your grace ?
PRINCE HENRY : That villanous abominable misleader of youth , Falstaff , that old white-bearded Satan .
FALSTAFF : My lord , the man I know .
PRINCE HENRY : I know thou dost .
FALSTAFF : But to say I know more harm in him than in myself , were to say more than I know . That he is old , the more the pity , his white hairs do witness it ; but that he is , saving your reverence , a whoremaster , that I utterly deny . If sack and sugar be a fault , God help the wicked ! if to be old and merry be a sin , then many an old host that I know is damned : if to be fat be to be hated , then Pharaoh 's lean kine are to be loved . No , my good lord ; banish Peto , banish Bardolph , banish Poins : but for sweet Jack Falstaff , kind Jack Falstaff , true Jack Falstaff , valiant Jack Falstaff , and therefore more valiant , being , as he is , old Jack Falstaff , banish not him thy Harry 's company , banish not him thy Harry 's company : banish plump Jack , and banish all the world .
PRINCE HENRY : I do , I will . A knocking heard Re-enter BARDOLPH , running
BARDOLPH : O , my lord , my lord ! the sheriff with a most monstrous watch is at the door .
FALSTAFF : Out , ye rogue ! Play out the play : I have much to say in the behalf of that Falstaff . Re-enter the Hostess
