PRINCE HENRY : No ; thou shalt .
FALSTAFF : Shall I ? O rare ! By the Lord , I 'll be a brave judge .
PRINCE HENRY : Thou judgest false already : I mean , thou shalt have the hanging of the thieves and so become a rare hangman .
FALSTAFF : Well , Hal , well ; and in some sort it jumps with my humour as well as waiting in the court , I can tell you .
PRINCE HENRY : For obtaining of suits ?
FALSTAFF : Yea , for obtaining of suits , whereof the hangman hath no lean wardrobe . ' Sblood , I am as melancholy as a gib cat or a lugged bear .
PRINCE HENRY : Or an old lion , or a lover 's lute .
FALSTAFF : Yea , or the drone of a Lincolnshire bagpipe .
PRINCE HENRY : What sayest thou to a hare , or the melancholy of Moor-ditch ?
FALSTAFF : Thou hast the most unsavoury similes and art indeed the most comparative , rascalliest , sweet young prince . But , Hal , I prithee , trouble me no more with vanity . I would to God thou and I knew where a commodity of good names were to be bought . An old lord of the council rated me the other day in the street about you , sir , but I marked him not ; and yet he talked very wisely , but I regarded him not ; and yet he talked wisely , and in the street too .
PRINCE HENRY : Thou didst well ; for wisdom cries out in the streets , and no man regards it .
FALSTAFF : O , thou hast damnable iteration and art indeed able to corrupt a saint . Thou hast done much harm upon me , Hal ; God forgive thee for it ! Before I knew thee , Hal , I knew nothing ; and now am I , if a man should speak truly , little better than one of the wicked . I must give over this life , and I will give it over : by the Lord , and I do not , I am a villain : I 'll be damned for never a king 's son in Christendom .
PRINCE HENRY : Where shall we take a purse tomorrow , Jack ?
FALSTAFF : ' Zounds , where thou wilt , lad ; I 'll make one ; an I do not , call me villain and baffle me .
PRINCE HENRY : I see a good amendment of life in thee ; from praying to purse-taking .
FALSTAFF : Why , Hal , ' tis my vocation , Hal ; ' tis no sin for a man to labour in his vocation . Enter POINS Poins ! Now shall we know if Gadshill have set a match . O , if men were to be saved by merit , what hole in hell were hot enough for him ? This is the most omnipotent villain that ever cried ' Stand ' to a true man .
PRINCE HENRY : Good morrow , Ned .
POINS : Good morrow , sweet Hal . What says Monsieur Remorse ? what says Sir John Sack and Sugar ? Jack ! how agrees the devil and thee about thy soul , that thou soldest him on Good-Friday last for a cup of Madeira and a cold capon 's leg ?
PRINCE HENRY : Sir John stands to his word , the devil shall have his bargain ; for he was never yet a breaker of proverbs : he will give the devil his due .
POINS : Then art thou damned for keeping thy word with the devil .
PRINCE HENRY : Else he had been damned for cozening the devil .
POINS : But , my lads , my lads , to-morrow morning , by four o 'clock , early at Gadshill ! there are pilgrims going to Canterbury with rich offerings , and traders riding to London with fat purses : I have vizards for you all ; you have horses for yourselves : Gadshill lies to-night in Rochester : I have bespoke supper to-morrow night in Eastcheap : we may do it as secure as sleep . If you will go , I will stuff your purses full of crowns ; if you will not , tarry at home and be hanged .
